


(@AN8 ROM Kernel 


Reference Manual: 
Exec 


Commodore Business Machines, Inc. 





Amiga 
ROM Kernel Reference Manual 


Exec 


Amiga 
ROM Kernel Reference Manual 


Exec 


Commodore Business Machines, Inc. 


Amiga Technical Reference Series 


v¥ 
Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc. 


Reading, Massachusetts Menlo Park, California New York 
Don Mills, Ontario Wokingham, England Amsterdam Bonn 
Sydney Singapore Tokyo Madrid San Juan 


Authors: Carl Sassenrath, Rob Peck, and Susan Deyl 
Program examples by Carl Sassenrath 


Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those 
designations appear in this book and Addison-Wesley was aware of a trademark claim, the designations have been printed in initial 
caps. 


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 


Amiga ROM kernel reference manual. 


(Amiga technical reference series) 
Includes index. 
1. Amiga (Computer)—Programming. 2. Read-only 
storage. I.. Commodore Business Machines. 
QA76.8.A177A655 1986 005.4°46 86-10887 
ISBN 0-201-11099-7 


COPYRIGHT © 1986 by Commodore Electronics, Ltd. 


All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored, in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by 
any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher. 
Printed in the United States of America. Published simultaneously in Canada. 


DISCLAIMER 


COMMODORE-AMIGA, INC., (“COMMODORE”) MAKES NO WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, WITH 
RESPECT TO THE PROGRAMS DESCRIBED HEREIN, THEIR QUALITY, PERFORMANCE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FIT- 
NESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THESE PROGRAMS ARE SOLD “AS IS.” THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THEIR 
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE IS WITH THE BUYER. SHOULD THE PROGRAMS PROVE DEFECTIVE FOLLOWING 
PURCHASE, THE BUYER (AND NOT THE CREATOR OF THE PROGRAMS, COMMODORE, THEIR DISTRIBUTORS OR 
THEIR RETAILERS) ASSUMES THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY DAMAGES. IN NO EVENT WILL COMMODORE 
BE LIABLE FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ANY DEFECT 
IN THE PROGRAMS EVEN IF IT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME LAWS DO NOT 
ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES. OR LIABILITIES FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSE- 
QUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY. 


Amiga is a trademark of Commodore-Amiga, Inc. 


Printed from camera-ready mechanicals supplied by the authors. 


FGHIJ-BA-9898 


Sixth Printing, August 1988 


PREFACE 


System Software Architecture 


The Amiga kernel consists of a number of system modules, some of which reside per- 
manently in the protected kzckstart memory and others that are loaded as needed from 
the system disk. Figure P-1 illustrates how the various modules interact with one 
another. At the top of the hierarchy are Workbench and the Command Line Interface 
(CLI), the user-visible portions of the system. Workbench uses Intuition to produce its 
displays and AmigaDOS to interact with the filing system. Intuition, in turn, uses the 


input device to retrieve its input and the graphics and layers library routines to produce 
its output. 


AmigaDOS controls processes and maintains the filing system and is in turn built on 
Exec, which manages tasks, task switching, interrupt scheduling, message-passing, I/O, 
and many other functions. 


At. the lowest level of the hierarchy is the Amiga hardware itself. Just above the 
hardware are the modules that control the hardware directly. Exec controls the 68000, 
scheduling its time among tasks and maintaining its interrupt vectors, among other 
things. The trackdisk device is the lowest-level interface to the disk hardware, perform- 
ing disk-head movement and raw disk I/O. The keyboard and gameport devices handle 
the keyboard and gameport hardware, queuing up input events for the input device to 


process. The audio device, serial device, and parallel device handle their respective 
hardware. Finally, the routines in the graphics library handle the interface to the graph- 
ics hardware. | 


Programming 


The functions of the kernel were designed to be accessed from any language that follows 
the Amiga’s standard interface conventions. These conventions define the proper nam- 
ing of symbols, the correct usage of processor registers, and the format of public data 
structures. 


REGISTER CONVENTIONS 


All system functions follow a simple set of register conventions. The conventions apply 
when any system function is called; programmers are encouraged to use the same con- 
ventions in their own code. 


The registers DO, D1, AO, and A1 are always scratch; they are free to be modified at any 
time. A function may use these registers without first saving their previous contents. 
The values of all other data and address registers must first be preserved. If any of 
these registers are used by a function, their contents must be saved and restored 
appropriately. 


If assembly code is used, function parameters may be passed in registers. The conven- 
tions in the preceding paragraphs apply to this use of registers as well. Parameters 
passed in DO, D1, AO, or Al may be destroyed. All other registers must be preserved. 


If a function returns a result, it is passed back to the caller in DO. If a function returns 
more than one result, the primary result is returned in DO and all other results are 
returned by accessing reference parameters. 


The A6 register has a special use within the system, and it may not be used as a param- 
eter to system functions. It is normally used as a pointer to the base of a function vec- 
tor table. All kernel functions are accessed by jumping to an address relative to this 
base. 


v1 


Workbench 


AmigaDOS CLI icons/Drawers/ 


and Utilities Utilities 




















intuition 
Windows, Menus, 
Gadgets, Events 


AmigaDOS 
Processes, 
File System 





Layers 
Library 
















Keyboard 







Exec Graphics ‘ 
Tasks, Messages see Rendering, Text, oe 
interrupts, /O ere Geis Devi 

Devices | 





Keyboard 
68000 Processor and Graphics /O Ports 


Mouse 





Amiga Hardware 





Figure P-1: Amiga System Software Modules 


Vi 


DATA STRUCTURES 


The naming, format, and initial values of public data structures must also be consistent 
The conventions are quite simple and are summarized below. 


1. All non-byte fields must be word-aligned. This may require that certain fields be 
padded with an extra byte. 

2. All address pointers should be 32 bits (not 24 bits) in size. The upper byte must 
never be used for data. 

3. Fields that are not defined to contain particular initial values must be initialized to 
zero. This includes pointer fields 

4. All reserved fields must be initiahzed to zero (for future compatibility). 

5. Data structures to be accessed by custom hardware must not be allocated on a pro- 
gram stack. 

6. Public data structures (such as a task control structure) must not be allocated on a 
program stack. 

7. When data structures are dynamically allocated, conventions 3 and 4 above can be 
satisfied by specifying that the structure is to be cleared upon allocation. 

OTHER PRACTICES 


A few other general programming practices should be noted. 


1. 


Never use absolute addresses. All hardware registers and special addresses have 
symbolic names (see the include files and amiga.lzb). 


Because this is a multitasking system, programs must never directly modify the pro- 
cessor exception vectors (including traps) or the processor priority level. 


Do not assume that programs can access hardware resources directly. Most 
hardware is controlled by system software that will not respond well to interference. 
Shared hardware requires programs to use the proper sharing protocols. 


Do not access shared data structures directly without the proper mutual exclusion. 


Remember, it is a multitasking system and other tasks may also be accessing the 
same structures. 


vill 


5. Most system functions require a particular execution environment. For example, 
DOS functions can be executed only from within a process; execution from within a 
task is not sufficient. As another example, most kernel functions can be executed 
from within tasks, but cannot be executed from within interrupts. 


6. The system does not monitor the size of a program stack. Take care that your pro- 
grams do not cause it to overflow. 


7. Tasks always execute in the 68000 processor user mode. Supervisor mode is reserved 
for interrupts, traps, and task dispatching. Take extreme care if your code executes 
in supervisor mode. Exceptions while in supervisor mode are deadly. 


8. Do not disable interrupts or multitasking for long periods of time. 


9. Assembly code functions that return a result do not necessarily affect the processor 
condition codes. By convention, the caller must test the returned value before act- 
ing on a condition code. This is usually done with a TST or MOVE instruction. 
Do not trust the condition codes returned by system functions. 


68010 AND 68020 COMPATIBILITY 


If you wish your code to be upwardly compatible with the 68010/68020 processors, you 
must avoid certain instructions and you must not make assumptions about the format of 
the supervisor stack frame. In particular, the MOVE SR,<ea> instruction is a 
privileged instruction on the 68010 and 68020. If you want your code to work correctly 
on all 680x0 processors, you should use the GetCC() function instead (see the Exec 
library function descriptions in the appendixes to Amiga ROM Kernel Reference 
Manual: Libraries and Devices). 


USING AMIGA EXEC FUNCTIONS 


The following guidelines will be helpful when you are trying to determine which func- 
tions may be run from within a task or from within interrupt code, when to forbid or 
permit task switching, and when to disable or enable interrupts. 


Functions That Tasks Can Perform 


Amiga system software distinguishes between tasks and processes. Figure P-1 illustrated 
this difference. Specifically, the information in a task control block is a subset of the 
information contained in a process control block. Consequently, any functions that 


expect to use process control information will not function correctly if provided with a 
pointer to a task. Generally speaking, tasks can perform any function that is described 
in this manual. A task cannot, however, perform any function that is related to 
AmigaDOS (such as printf, Read, Write, and so on). If you want a task to perform 
DOS-related functions, you should arrange for the task to send a message to a “process,” 
which in turn can perform the function (filling a buffer that is passed to the task, for 
example) and signal that the job has been done. The alternative is to use the DOS func- 
tion CreateProc() instead of the Exec support function CreateTask() for tasks that 
you spawn yourself. A process can call all functions, including DOS functions. 


More information about tasks can be found in the ‘““Tasks” chapter. 


Functions That Interrupt Code Can Perform 


/ 


The following Exec functions can be safely performed during interrupts: 


Alert() FindPort() 
Disable() FindTask() 
Cause() PutMsg(} 

Enable() ReplyMsg() 


FindName() Signal() 


In addition, if you are manipulating your own list structures during interrupt code, you 
can also use the following functions: 


AddHead() 
Add Tail() 
Enqueue() 
RemHead() 
RemTail() 


General Information about Synchronization 


The system functions Enable() and Disable() are provided to enable and disable inter- 
rupts. The system functions Forbid() and Permit() disallow or allow task switching. 
You need only determine what you are trying to synchronize with before deciding if you 
must wrap an Enable()/Disable() pair around a function call, use Forbid()/Permit(), 
or simply allow the system to interrupt or switch tasks at its whim. 


If you are trying to modify a data structure common to two tasks, you must assure that 
your access to these structures is consistent. One method is to put Forbid()/Permit() 
around anything that modifies (or reads) that structure. This makes the function 
atomic; that is, the structure is stable and consistent after each full operation by either 
task. If you are trying to synchronize with something that might happen as a result of 
interrupt code (for example, Exec data structures), you put Disable()/Enable() around 
any of your own operations that might interact with such operations. There are other 
methods (sending messages, using semaphores, and so on), but they are somewhat more 
involved. 


Note that if you are trying to read the contents of a data structure while it is being 
changed, it is possible to generate an address error that will be sensed by the 68000, 
causing an exception. This is caused by reading a pointer that is supposed to point to 
where the data is located. If the pointer value is no longer valid, it may point to a 
nonexistent memory location that, when read, causes an exception. 


Contents of This Manual 


This manual describes the functions of Amiga’s multi-tasking executive (Exec). For infor- 
mation about the graphics support routines (including text and animation) and the I/O 
devices, see Amiga ROM Kernel Manual: Libraries and Devices. Also included in that 
volume are the Workbench, which is an environment for running programs, and the 
floating point mathematics library. 


The discussion of the data structures and routines in this manual. is reinforced through 
numerous C-language examples. The examples are kept as simple as possible. Whenever 
possible, each example demonstrates a single function. Where appropriate, there are 
complete sample programs. 


Boldface type is used for the names of functions, data structures, macros, and variables. 
System header files and other system file names are shown in italics. 


In code examples that show data structures and pointers, this book adheres to the fol- 
lowing naming conventions. For example, the name node refers to an instance of a 


Node and In refers to a pointer to a Node. 


For more information, see also Amiga Intuition Reference Manual, AmtgaDOS User’s 
Manual, AmigaDOS Developer’s Manual, and AmigaDOS Technical Reference Manual. 


Xl 


Contents 


aaa ae ate Sie eta ae ade teal acs, Vv 
System Software Architecture Sagan ep sti neat a aS aa ad Vv 
MET TINY TN NN as asec Pa cache ria alee ential ene vi 

REGISTER CONVENTIONS. ounuicccccccccsccsscccccsccsscscccssscecssccsssssssesestsecececsseserarscecerees vl 
DATA STRUCTURES saciid csasietecdh Aisle eee aaah vill 
OTHER PRACTICES vated erases onoatla pal ae eeoih en hake Vill 
68010 AND 68020 COMPATIBILITY oun... cccccccccccsscsecesssesssssececssssssssesseseseseees 1x 
USING AMIGA EXEC FUNCTIONS ounces cccccscscscsccescssesesececscseseseseccesseees 1X 
Contents of This Mamural once cecssccssssssssccccsssccscccnscececcssssessccsssuecssccssssseeecceseesenees xi 

Chapter 1 LISTS AND QUEUES o.oo ccccssessssssessssssecssssseccssseeesssnseessseeeen 1 
THEPOC UCL IO eivcisscteestetectscSieshlatccshcrceltictridedecesctasenclseleactiliatenlbeties acca tnedaleccte eleee: 2 
DSU OE AC GUC eget sche aise healer nteen ten eee eed 2 

INODE STRUCTURE cists ct ates atleast iuseuiaes 2 
NODE: INITIALIZATION -scccc eli centectennatatatiiuasttietinciceleinucihan 3 
HEADER: S (RUC TURES cnc eile etl eta ieee: 4 
HEADER INITIALIZATION onc cccccccccsssescscstsssccscsssecssscesersseserersscecscaes 5 
BASU UTC CIOS 3 iereicc sence t eee teks seul tence ecaecaapcs ceattease eeatleslata thors 6 
INSERTION AND REMOVAL, 00... ccc cccccccsccccsscssccccssscsesesecssesesesecesessssesesesseceseces 6 
SPECIAL CASE INSERTION .......cccccccccssssesscsscscesessossscssssesesscscessesesecccsoserecesesaseseesses 7 
SPECIAL CASE REMOVALS sisicssciissiisscics caaidcdediniadcsautaaaleucunties 7 
PRIORITIZED INSERTION uuu ccccccccccccccssssecscssscesssscvaccesesssecesscsesesensacesevers 7 
SHARCUING BY INAMEG cc oiiekctcic ete eiakitiees teers ane neeaes 8 
NSU IVC TOSS tei ec cote ecsest sates cee Sas deca cetcis ceetsearataieeeeh bce tcaria eis iat 8 
DOV ls 0S secretes testers ea tee eerie ates ene ec 9 
SR Nh Se aaseshetetctec cect tcc a aseacdc sees esd eseasde atin Gutstecshcotiatiel elisa toast 10 

ROD DUCE Bi PPS IS recat teat testis a Gereatiass acess dase tind taseacee teased masa 11 

UU OGG GOL cicero cetacean Teer eet 12 
SCHEDULING iiccaansateicictiedeuiidereiitia iether dala ntsc haaneaie 12 
SIGS UA cieeet a caste vensececsceeaaes eo encase ase ica asadea dave eeceua train ccatnteede Se Siacslaaccs 13 
TASK OUR UBS che saeces eesti tented te ademas ac sienna Nea ens 14 
Maas aas recast tates teeta a claus ght teasdcta hoses deceecseen ae encattt cease 14 
© PROG PUR Birch eiicieaieietsictaantacitesaltieoeeiatinearaacieataalaenes usecase ices 14 

CA OM aac cate eee eee eee eee 15 
iach cs acct tc cet eect hd enc ncesteg sea hat needs deoacseu actos aaa 18 

POT TID NINA U LOM eee soeascseshh cee estes arc ga ci aac RT lta 18 

BN MNCL Specks cte alice seaweed tae ate eens alee cea 19 
PLL OCA TION aicctckesseectte tiene etirscteeetestaciiasiutatens slate a haier a acosntinicnsscacese 20 
WAITING FOR A SIGNAL . BassScstlescalsslaedlptiaaeass eeneasessctserdashareidaitasges 21 
GENERATING ‘A SIGNAD wins ccscienicedidacewicdticdticadcendel Kaaicinction 22 

EC US) OLN cece ccc te eta Rs ae eter cee, 22 


— xii — 


DS ON att dt 23 
SEVIER Bi iscosccivie sons tzesascsvsnecascacsincpuazapcasudesesicaastcsast ons sash psvenseaaicesisdstansessiccesaeeedasetoned 25 
BCS UN OUNS exes chisel arab eaten ee a ea atc tea teeta te dete 25 
TOR sce tcetacatscdsesecncstepcses tacts cotn techasstdaasstak cs ceases sans esee eae aa Shasta cadets te cea 26 
PLA INDICES tssssoeessicisicecc actactucavvecivsstasicucs tsoucdeiosssdaeantesniaie catasiedan ea daaaean 27 
TRAP INS TRUG TIONS sss cssccsscscsstiaciciesstepiccssee Sasesinsesssbsteschlseccscsnessessuassubsessseaietde 27 
Chapter 3 MESSAGES AND PORTS ooiicssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssesssssssssssssee 29 
PIN UO GU CU (OU ne s5pcssacasssscecsacessectstasastatszacsecadshececatectbobstetessteadt ciducnctuaptaletibniaassa tame iceatie 29 
Be OL GS iecascsses ca ceee Ss Sse etc scee a catecea eee ieeaceas  eeSs 30 
BE sea dassscesccsce su cdescascsasa cca cave icsessevennasatuussaansaseivaiteeiaucesen alas danas osaiaceuctatiuese 30 
CREA EOIN, wi sc saceseGescncteseslseciviivsisa tiene tenes iovcaaeaadcnnsinnias sn vacteatasatdanseornadeceieecesemaies ees 32 
DEEL LOIN: sacsccsssecissasssaasStecuseriaiiesesciaasssleavelipe oa igictiadecdetsclessi ces isda it a eaeeae 33 
BRING LV OU pnsacaseeisceetsstecnestn basset uned aces yses acnssa vn sagan ccessnansiustdonabdanzacaaesapestal as loameioe 33 
WieSS a8 6S sxe puncte eins ia decree aided aa enone ak 33 
UE PENG: IMSS Gace cece tessaves ies taeda voce easandaesaasnnsedecaeedaentareteanteetensaetaeavots 34 
WAITING FOR: A: MESSAGES sscsivicsscssciccsseiessinccessasstesSevissisasecncaseuesasisncaaneieaaieatecves 39 
GETTING A MESSAGE cssgecsessstisasssiccsnsssactsvesscassvenelicheatosavsasssscsbostiondesabiabivebagaversoues 36 

BOP E VIN cissstececassctuecsbcccestasceSesetccceicsaasnsastascsesbasavacsusn vast tedsnaescassaceeantb aasesuneaseanteseeees 3” 
Chapter 4 INPUT (OUTPUT cra tcca accumsan catia relied eleiea 39 
MTVU OGG VOM chao ia sss ndasbchcsabctasasestcyestassdaauaisdstdeasbeerectaatececiuesst deisel a ceiatie 39 
FREQUESE SUPUCE URC ised siciosn ccc stessdactiascesicitsise coasters castes ectesbuscaidiantlanasccigsiases 40 
RGSS UT CUO NS acct toecpsnavcssss cass tscastas tecnica satsa a cicaststaantdtecests cast astaseatsmadeastiudiostesd 43 
SAMO ATA: COMMAS sss asesteccsttoatasicterniansedteacubie tantra eanectetiinicis 44 
PPO rtf Oca reteeicrcrectscetoreert etecl aa eens ah ccttaune te cea teieteeer aban: 45 
PREPARA ION,: crescicsine iaisslectecsecastasenansndncecsaetnee cattle iladeahlaeie: 45 
SYNCHRONOUS REQUESTS. ou. scssssescescesnscseees joueeetiedemeteatents 46 
ASYNCHRONOUS REQUESTS .u...cssssssssssscssssssscessssssssessssesseesseecessesssseeesees Belseeaees 47 
CONCLUSION raicsssecialescrelessisetreisctesetscns accent aleaecentesed tina datneaereieense 48 
ati et eee se ea 48 
UAT AEC V1 Ces sess ssszszzstucatsis cotsateatas esate ince Sactnsaidd cheat clap askelansaects esrheceamna nee 49 
Chapter 0 TIN LE REUP US cisdaatievnstunninaienententeininne sens 51 
TOC WOT oasis ac ale ie ses ees at tro cee ateelte te 51 
SRQUENCE-OF EVEN US waxiceticcctticctirectictsrdceca nncausiininnncianinnniiedt 52 
INTERRUPT PRIOR TS wctctssccscctessistieiiencrricndeciatiiacinbuiiineannens 3 
NONMASKABLE INTERRUPT uuu... sscscessscecesecssrsscsecececnssssecscarasseseserassesersensacaes D0 

OPV ICING PCCP IU) US ssesssceecseserscds trace sae cosestvasclenss ae tasastaberseta coaenuaeaiadnncemennien 55 
DATA;:S FRUC TURE: svcctireaiicuniauiideeneiloneadangn ican aieensess 00 
BINVIROINNIEIN Bi cesaiceiicctuntetentalasl cnacedestcants rant aoe aia 26 
INTERRUPT PHANDLE HO iiiiintdiadddtatcine aan ee 36 
INTERRUP DP SER VERS cccsiicctdanuicennteaunintncncnteranceannnnuniinnd 60 

Ol UWAPe PL CCE IDO sess costs iste hotest eclectic ed cecal ania 62 
Disabling Interrupts wascscecatiotcaccsictieinticalinnaeeicetenieinaactanccutiien 63 


— xiv - 


Chapter 6 MEMORY ALLOCATION 0. ccssscsscccnnnnnssseececccsennssnsessesee 65 


POUTOCUCUION ottscrcheccrciensnctecicinatitiameeranbitnstamiateratomueat: 100 
Using Memory Allocation Routines wu... ccccsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssessssen 66 
MEMORY ‘REQUIREMENTS scessiscccsesscccescictsstatuscvedsscwasssicsissscsasctsascdastsctwoascecepacssosbec 66 
MEMORY HANDLING ROUTINES uuu. cssscsssssssssssessscessscssessccssesessesssesessesens 67 
SAMPLE CALLS FOR ALLOCATING SYSTEM MEMORY ..............s000 68 
SAMPLE FUNCTION CALLS FOR FREEING SYSTEM 
ITE IWOOT sesessecctsessasesccuseces cases thasian cae caeeeseds sks 68 
~ ALLOCATING MULTIPLE MEMORY BLOCKS. uc cccsscstssssesssssscseees 69 
Memory Allocation and Tasks wo cccscssssssssssssssssssssssssssssessssssssssssssssssssssessssssses 71 
MEMORY ALLOCATION AND MULTITASKING uc ccscscscssscesssessssees 72 
MANAGING MEMORY WITH ALLOCATE() AND 
DEAL OC ATE) esis 0 ete cya ee at ea 72 
CRG Pter 7 UB AS isssscssssacesstatsstitestieacnasteaadiava cease igcdsdssastacgatiaaiotsains atest ean 75 
WV aG: Isa DIP ary § ccisiichsoiannntadendiasnutantaisiaiea eee anette 76 
TIOW EO: A CCOSS DPA Yaa ccssceststnsecsaatetiasacxansttrcssnerecaaeenr A carheaeceabiatate a 76 
OPENING A: LIBRARY ciieciesnice cd oicesk chested csiecatascialcscauceected Sh ceesseccetinects 76 
USING A LIBRARY TO CALL A ROUTINE .Q...cccscssscsssscssssscsessessenss 77 
USING A LIBRARY TO REFERENCE DATA .......ccccsssssssescssescsssssssescsesasees 78 
CACHING LIBRARY POINTERS. ...... i ccsesssssssscssssessssesesscsssessersssesesessssssessseees 78 
CLOSING A DIBRAR Y, ccesicesiccsecttescstcid cessccdrssessce Neotielbcctcsctt hiawsatisaacheatidetiaateh este 79 
PAGING “A DEAE Y. we asaiceisitictnicdiceimncaitinieunadderesihsietiadataiaiidlubincnceie 79 
MAKING A NEW LIBRARY uu... ccsccscscssessssssecsssssssssesessessssssesssssessessessceesseess 79 
MINIMUM SUBSET OF LIBRARY CODE VECTORS cc ccsscscssesseeseees 80 
STRUCTURE OF A LIBRARY NODE. uu. scccsssssssssessesessessssessessseesssssseess 81 
CHANGING THE CONTENTS OF A LIBRARY 00.0... ecssssssssssescssssesseees 82 
Relationship of Libraries to Devices oo..ccssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssseesssssssees 82 
Chapter 8 ROM-WACK ouiiicccccssccsssssssssssssssssssessssssssssssesssssssssesesssssssssssseesssssssssssnseessset 83 
TO UTOC MCC ION sees cette soca een heaters clcceie dl acca bnata tess 83 
SOG HITS CO? WV ACK sacs cstacasescc arises tov ascahacacdass aces ivsisahaadals wa aestastestedanasteieecaeeociaeon 84 
Keystrokes, Numbers, and Symbols i... ccssssssscssssssssesssssssssssecessessssssssseesseseseses 84 
PROP ISUCR Ht PA MIC scisciecscictassishes pect nce aaidcectaeaseieaeiamactdead eeahas al sdstacdandanss 85 
DISDIAY F PAWNCS istisssitalsteteeschest teenies ites sdnacbiesiatassdadttcanncniaiaien 86 
FRELAUIVE OSI CLONING ci senses crc etetiie ace da cians cit ci cotadl chee aniieaieimids 87 
PDSONICE: POST TNS 5 cssscessssscdeied ssissss tiaistcssycasteatsaaligdandessatiRestaasdestectcctesticasnestsicoess 88 
PLCC Tiree CTO ry sacs ates sata hcee ceca reg acacia tectcesvthccseead 89 
FXO CULION: COUPON scae.5 scsi tsk acc dccucan ech ch Gea chek Scns hbcasa ocala blstbdcSinstecvees 91 
FSC OL GS ees al Selec Sota eae asia deena 91 
Returning to Multitasking After a Crash... sssssssssssssssssssssssccsssssssecsssesen 91 


Appendix A C EXEC INCLUDE FILES o.oisssmsnssnumnessssusnunusnen A-1 


Appendix B OTHER ROUTINES ooicccccccssssssssssssssssssssssesssesssssssesssssssenee B-1 
Exec Support Library 
Debug.lib Functions 
Amiga.lib Functions 
AmigaDOS General Information 
Interchange File Format 


Appendix C MEMORY /DISK INFORMATION ues C-1 
Software Memory Map 
Disk Format Information 
Appendix D LIBRARY BASE OFFSETS. uincccccccsssssssssssssssssssssssssseenen D-1 
COM pees erect ta ieee se a are Index-1 


Amiga 
ROM Kernel Reference Manual 


Exec 


Chapter 1 


LISTS AND QUEUES 


A thorough understanding of the basic elements of Exec lists and queues is necessary to 
write programs that deal properly with Exec. Subjects related to lists and queues 
include the node structure of lists, the linkage and initialization of list structures, and 
the list support functions and macros. Queues and priority sorted lists, which are 


achieved through the use of the list functions applied in a certain order, are also 
important. 


Lists and Queues 1 


Introduction 


The Amiga system software operates in a highly dynamic environment of control data 
structures. An early design goal of Exec was to keep the system flexible and open-ended 
by not creating artificial boundaries on the number of system structures used. Rather 
than using static sized system tables, Exec uses dynamically created structures that are 
attached to the system as needed. This concept is central to the design of Exec. 


Exec uses lists to maintain its internal database of system structures. Tasks, interrupts, 
libraries, devices, messages, I/O requests, and all other Exec data structures are support- 
ed and serviced through the consistent application of Exec’s list mechanism. Lists have 
a common data structure, and a common set of functions is used for manipulating them. 
Because all of these structures are treated in a similar manner, only a small number of 
list handling functions need be supported by Exec. 


List Structure 


A list is composed of a header and a chain of linked elements called nodes. The header 
maintains memory pointers to the first and last nodes of the linked chain of nodes.. The 
address of the header serves as the handle to the entire list. When referring to a list, 
you refer to the address of its header. In addition, the header specifies the data type of 
the nodes in a list. Node data typing will be discussed later. 


NODE STRUCTURE 


A node is divided into two parts: list linkage and node content. The linkage part con- 
tains memory pointers to the node’s successor and predecessor nodes, the node data 
type, and the node priority. The content part stores the actual data structure of 
interest. As a C language structure, the linkage part of a node is defined as follows: 


struct Node { 


struct Node *In_ Succ; 
struct Node *In_ Pred; 
UBYTE In_Type; 
BYTE In_Pri; 
char *In_ Name; 


2 Lists and Queues 


where 


In_Succ 


points to the next node in the list (successor), 


In_Pred 


points to the previous node in the list (predecessor), 


In_Type 
defines the type of the node, 


In_Pri 


specifies the priority of the node, and 


In_Name 


points to a printable name for the node. 
As usual, node refers to an instance of a node, and In is a pointer to a node. 


The Exec Interrupt structure, a complete node, is defined as follows: 


struct Interrupt { 


struct Node is_Node; 
APTR is_Data; 
VOID (*is_Code)(); 


} 


Here the is_Data and is_Code fields represent the useful content of the node. 


NODE INITIALIZATION 


Before you link a node into a list, you should initialize it. The initialization consists of 
setting the In_Type, In_Pri, and In_Name fields to their appropriate values. The 
In_Suce and In_Pred fields do not require initialization. The In_Type field contains 
the data type of the node. This indicates to Exec (and other interested subsystems) the 
type, and hence the structure, of the content portion of the node. Some of the standard 
system types are defined in the ezec/nodes.i and ezec/nodes.h include files. Some exam- 
ples of standard system types are NT_TASK, NT_LINTERRUPT, NT_DEVICE, 
and NT_MSGPORT. These are defined in exec/nodes.h. 


Lists and Queues 3 


The In_Pri field uses a signed numerical value ranging from -128 to +127 to indicate the 
priority of the node relative to other nodes in the same list. Higher-priority nodes have 
more positive values; for example, 127 is the highest priority, zero is nominal priority, 
and -128 is the lowest priority. Some Exec lists are kept sorted by priority order. In 
such lists, the highest-priority node is at the head of the list, and the lowest-priority 
node is at the tail of the list. For most Exec node types, priority is not used. In such 
cases it is a good practice to initialize the priority field to zero. 


The In_Name field is a pointer to a null-terminated string of characters. Node names 
are used mostly to bind symbolic names to actual nodes. They are also useful for debug- 
ging purposes. It is always a good idea to provide every node with a name. 


Here is a C example showing how you might initialize a node called myInt, which is an 
instance of the interrupt structure defined above: 


struct Interrupt mylInt; 
mylInt.In_Type = NT_LINTERRUPT; 
myInt.lIn_Pri = 20; 

myInt.In_Name = ”sample.interrupt” 


HEADER STRUCTURE 


As mentioned earlier, the header maintains memory pointers to the first and last nodes 
of the linked chain of nodes. This header also serves as a handle for referencing the en- 
tire list. 


Here is the C-structure of a list header: 


struct List { 
struct Node *lh_Head; 
struct Node *lh_Tail; 
struct Node *lh_TailPred; 


UBYTE lh_Type; 
UBYTE lh_pad; 
}3 
where: 
lIh_Head 


points to the first node in the list,. 


4 Lists and Queues 


Ih_Tail 


is always zero, 


Ih_ TailPred 


points to the last node in the list, 


Ih_Type 
defines the type of nodes within the list, and 


lh_pad 


is merely a structure alignment byte (not used). 
As usual, list refers to an actual instance of a list, and lh is a pointer to a node. 


One subtlety here should be explained further. The head and tail portions of the header 
actually overlap. This is best understood if you think of the head and tail as two 
separate nodes. The lh_Head field is the In_Succ field of the first node in the list, and 
the lh_Tail field is its n_Pred. The lh_Tail is set permanently to zero to indicate 
that this node is the first on the list —that is, it has no successors. A similar method is 
used for the tail node. The lh_Tail field is the lh_Succ field of the last node in the list 
and the Ih_TailPred field is its In_Pred. In this case, the zero lh_Tail indicates that 
the node is the last on the list —that is, it has no predecessors. 


HEADER INITIALIZATION 


List headers must be properly initialized before use. It is not adequate to initialize the 
entire header to zero. The head and tail entries must be set up correctly. 


The header should be initialized as follows: 
1. Assign the Ih_Head field to the address of lh_Tail. 
2. Assign the lh_TailPred field to the address of Ih_Head. 
3. Clear the lh_Tail field. 


4. Set Ih_Type to the same data type as that of the nodes to be kept in this list. 


In.C, an example initialization might look like this: 


Lists and Queues 5 


struct List list; 

list.lh_Head = &list.lh_Tail; 
list.lh_TailPred = &list.lh_ Head; 
list.lh_T ail == 0; 

list. lh_Type = NT_LINTERRUPTS; 


In assembly code, only four instructions are necessary to initialize the header: 


MOVE.L AO,(A0) 

ADDQ.L  #LH_TAIL,(AO) 

CLR.L LH_TAIL(A0) 

MOVE.L AO ,LH_TAILPRED(A0) 


Note that this sequence of instructions is the same as is used in the macro NEWLIST, 
contained in the file exec/lists.t. The sequence performs its function without destroying 
the pointer to the list header in AO (which is why ADDQ.L is used). This function may 
also be accessed from C as a call to NewList(lh) where lh is the address of the list 
header. See the source code for CreatePort() in chapter 3, “Messages and Ports,” for 
one instance of its use. 


List Functions 


Exec provides a number of symmetric functions for handling lists. There are functions 
for inserting and removing nodes in lists, for adding and removing tail and head nodes in 
lists, for inserting nodes in a priority order, and for searching a list for a node with a 
particular name. 


INSERTION AND REMOVAL 


The Insert() function is used for inserting a new node into any position in a list. It al- 
ways inserts the node following a specified node that is already part of the list. For ex- 
ample, Insert(Ih,In,pred) inserts the node after pred in the specified list. If the pred 
node points to the list header or is null, the new node will be inserted at the head of the 
list. Similarly, if the pred node points to the list Ih_Tail field, the new node will be in- 
serted at the tail of the list. However, both of these actions can be better accomplished 
with the functions mentioned in the ‘“‘Special Case Insertion” section below. 


6 Lists and Queues 


The Remove() function is used to remove a specified node from a list. For example, 
Remove(In) will remove the specified node from whatever list it is in. Please note: to 
be removed, a node must actually be in the list. If you attempt to remove a node that is 
not in a list, you will cause serious system internal problems. 


SPECIAL CASE INSERTION 


Although the Insert() function allows new nodes to be inserted at the head and the tail 
of a list, the AddHead() and AddTail() functions will do so with higher efficiency. 
Adding to the head or tail of a list is common practice in queue type operations, as in 
first-in-first-out (FIFO) or last-in-first-out (LIFO or stack) operations. For example, 
AddHead(lh,In) would insert the node at the head of the specified list. 


SPECIAL CASE REMOVAL 


The two functions RemHead() and RemTail() are used in combination with 
AddHead() and AddTail() to create special list ordering. When you combine 
AddTail() and RemHead(), you produce a first-in-first-out (FIFO) list. When you 
combine AddHead() and RemHead() a last-in-first-out (LIFO or stack) list is pro- 
duced. RemTail() exists for symmetry. Other combinations of these functions can also 
be used productively. For example, RemTail(Ih) removes the last node from the 
specified list and returns a pointer to it as a result. If the list is empty, it returns a zero 
result. 


PRIORITIZED INSERTION 


None of the list functions discussed so far makes use of the priority field in the list data 
structure. The Enqueue() function makes use of this field and is equivalent to Insert() 
for a priority sorted list. It performs an insert on a priority basis, keeping the higher- 
priority nodes towards the head of the list. All nodes passed to this function must have 
their priority assigned prior to the call. For example, Enqueue(lh,In) inserts the node 
into the prioritized list after the last node of same or higher priority. 


As mentioned earlier, the highest-priority node is at the head of the list, and the lowest- 
priority node is at the tail of the list. The RemHead() function will return the 
highest-priority node, and RemTail() will return the lowest-priority node. 


Note that if you insert a node that has the same priority as another node in the list, 


Enqueue() will use FIFO ordering. The new node is inserted following the last node of 
equal priority. 


Lists and Queues 7 


SEARCHING BY NAME 


Because most lists contain nodes with symbolic names attached (via the n_Name field), 
it is possible to find a node by its name. This naming technique is used throughout Exec 
for such nodes as tasks, libraries, devices, and resources. 


The FindName() function is provided to search a list for the first node with a given 
name. For example, FindName(lh, ‘“‘Furrbol’’) returns a pointer to the first node 
named ‘‘Furrbol.” If no such node exists, a zero is returned. The case of the name char- 
acters is significant; “‘foo” is different from ‘‘Foo.”’ 


To find multiple occurrences of nodes with identical names, the FindName() function is 
called multiple times. For example, if you want to find the second node with the 
“Furrbol’’ name: 


struct List *lh; 
struct Node «ln, *FindName(); 
In = FindName(lh, “Furrbol’’); 
if (In != 0) { 
In = FindName(In, “‘Furrbol’’); 
} 


Notice that the second search uses the node found by the first search. The 
FindName() function never compares the specified name with that of the starting node. 
It always begins the search with the successor of the starting node. 


List Macros 


Assembly code programmers may want to optimize their code by using assembly code 
list macros. Because these macros actually embed the specified list operation into the 
code, they result in slightly faster operations. The file ezxec/lists.2 contains the recom- 
mended set of macros. For example, the following instructions implement the 
REMOVE macro: 


MOVE.L_ (A1),A0 * get successor 
MOVE.L LN_PRED(A1),A1 * get predecessor 
MOVE.L AQO,(A1) *« fix up predecessor’s succ pointer 


MOVE.L A1,LN_PRED(AO) * fixup successor’s pred pointer 


8 Lists and Queues 


Empty Lists 


It is often important to determine if a list is empty. This can be done in many ways, 
but only two are worth mentioning. If either the Ih_TailPred field is pointing to the 
list header or the In_Succ field of the lh_Head is zero, then the list is empty. 


In C, for example, these methods would be written as follows: 


if (list. lh_TailPred == list) { 
printf ("list is empty”); 
} 


or 


if (list .Jh_Head->In_Suce == 0) { 
printf ("list is empty” ); 
} 


In assembly code, if AO points to the list header, these methods would be written as 
follows: 


CMP.L LH_TAILPRED(A0O),AO0 
BEQ list_is_empty 


or 


MOVE.L LH_HEAD(A0O),A1 
TST.L LN_SUCC(A1) 
BEQ list_is_empty 


Because LH_HEAD and LN_SUCC are both zero offsets, the second case can be 
simplified. 


Scanning a List 


Occasionally a program may need to scan a list to locate a particular node, find a node 
that has a field with a particular value, or just print the list. Because lists are linked in 
both the forward and backward directions, the list can be scanned from either the head 
or tail. 


Lists and Queues 9 


Here is an example of C code that uses a for loop to print the names of all nodes in a 
list: 


struct List *lh; 

struct Node *ln; 

for (In = lh -> lh_Head; In -> In_Succ; In = In -> In_Succ) { 
printf ("node %lx is named %s’”, In, In -> In_name); 


In assembly code, it is more efficient to use a lookahead cache pointer when scanning a 
list. In this example the list is scanned until the first zero-priority node is reached: 


MOVE.L (A1),D1 * first node 
scan: 
MOVE.L D1,Al1 
MOVE.L (A1),D1 * lookahead to next 


BEQ.S _ not_found * end of list 
TST.B LN_PRI(A1) 

BNE.S scan 

ss * found one 


not_found: 


Important Note: It is possible to collide with other tasks when manipulating shared sys- 
tem lists. For example, if some other task happens to be modifying a list while your 
task scans it, an inconsistent view of the list may be formed. This can result in a cor- 
rupted system. Generally it is not permissible to read or write a shared system list 
without first locking out access from other tasks (and in some cases locking out access 
from interrupts). This technique of mutual exclusion is discussed in the ‘“Tasks” 
chapter. 


10 Lists and Queues 


Chapter 2 


TASKS 


The management of tasks on the Amiga involves task creation, termination, event sig- 
nals, traps, exceptions, and mutual exclusion. The discussions in this chapter assume 
that you have a basic understanding of lists (see chapter 1) and some understanding of 
multitasking principles. 


Tasks 11 


Introduction 


Multitasking is one of the primary features supported by Exec. Multitasking is the abil- 
ity of an operating system to manage the simultaneous execution of multiple indepen- 
dent processor contexts. In addition, good multitasking does this in a transparent 
fashion: a task is not forced to recognize the existence of other tasks. In Exec this 
involves sharing the 68000 processor among a number of concurrent programs, providing 
each with its own virtual processor. 


SCHEDULING 


Exec accomplishes multitasking by multiplexing the 68000 processor among a number of 
task contexts. Every task has an assigned priority, and tasks are scheduled to use the 
processor on a priority basis. The highest-priority ready task is selected and receives 
processing until a higher-priority task becomes active, the running task exceeds a preset 
time period (a quantum) and there is another equal-priority task ready to run, or the 
task needs to wait for an external event before it can continue. 


Task scheduling is normally preemptive in nature. The running task may lose the pro- 
cessor at nearly any moment by being displaced by another more urgent task. Later, 
when the preempted task regains the processor, it continues from where it left off. 


It is also possible to run a task in a nonpreemptive manner. This mode of execution is 
generally reserved for system data structure access. It is discussed in the ‘‘Exclusion”’ 
section toward the end of this chapter. 


In addition to the prioritized scheduling of tasks, teme-sliceng also occurs for tasks with 
the same priority. In this scheme a task is allowed to execute for a quantum (a preset 
time period). If the task exceeds this period, the system will preempt it and give other 
tasks of the same priority a chance to run. This will result in a time-sequenced round 
robin scheduling of all equal-priority tasks. 


Because of the prioritized nature of task scheduling, tasks must avoid performing the 
busy wait technique of polling. In this technique, a piece of code loops endlessly waiting 
for a change in state of some external condition. Tasks that use the busy wait technique 
waste the processor and eat up all its spare power. In most cases this prevents lower- 
priority tasks from receiving any processor time. Because certain devices, such as the 
keyboard and the disk, depend on their associated tasks, using a busy wait at a high 
priority may defer important system services. Busy waiting can even cause system 
deadlocks. 


12 Tasks 


When there are no ready tasks, the processor is halted and only interrupts will be ser- 
viced. Because task multiplexing often occurs as a result of events triggered by system 
interrupts, this is not a problem. Halting the processor often helps improve the perfor- 
mance of other system bus devices. 


TASK STATES 


For every task, Exec maintains state information to indicate its status. A normally 
operating task will exist in one of three states: 


running 


ready 


waiting 


A task that is running is one that currently owns the processor. This 
usually means that the task is actually executing, but it is also possible 
that it has been temporarily displaced by a system interrupt. 


A task that is ready is one that is not currently executing but that is 
scheduled for the processor. The task will receive processor time based 
on its priority relative to the priorities of other running and ready tasks. 


A task that is waiting is in a paused state waiting for an external event 
to occur. Such a task is not scheduled to use the processor. The task 
will be made ready only when one of its external events occurs (see the 
“Signals” section below). 


A task may also exist in a few transient states: 


added 


removed 


exception 


A task in the added state has just been added to Exec and has not yet 
been scheduled for processing. 


A task in the removed state is being removed. Tasks in this state are 
effectively terminated and are usually undergoing clean-up operations. 


A task in the exception state is scheduled for special exception 
processing. 


Tasks 13 


TASK QUEUES 


Tasks that are not in the running state are linked into one of two system queues. Tasks 
that are marked as ready to run but awaiting an opportunity to do so are kept in the 
ready queue. This queue is always kept in a priority sorted order with the highest priori- 
ty task at the head of the queue. A waiting queue accounts for tasks that are awaiting 
external events. Unlike the ready queue, the waiting queue is not kept sorted by priori- 
ty. New entries are appended to the tail of the queue. A task will remain in the waiting 
queue until it is awakened by an event (at which time it is placed into the ready queue). 


PRIORITY 


A task’s priority indicates its importance relative to other tasks. Higher-priority tasks 
receive the processor before lower-priority tasks do. Task priority is stored as a signed 
number ranging from -128 to +127. Higher priorities are represented by more positive 
values; zero is considered the neutral priority. Normally, system tasks execute some- 
where in the range of +20 to -20. 


It is not wise to needlessly raise a task’s priority. Sometimes it may be necessary to 
carefully select a priority so that the task can properly interact with various system 
tasks. The ChangePri() Exec function is provided for this purpose. 


STRUCTURE 


Exec maintains task context and state information in a task-control data structure. Like 
most Exec structures, these structures are dynamically linked onto various task queues 
through the use of a prepended list Node structure. The C-language form of this struc- 
ture is defined in the exec/task.h include file as follows: 


14 Tasks 


extern struct Task { 


struct 
UBYTE 
UBYTE 
BYTE 
BYTE 
ULONG 
ULONG 
ULONG 
ULONG 
UWORD 
UWORD 
APTR 
APTR 
APTR 
APTR 
APTR 
APTR 
APTR 
VOID 
VOID 
struct 
APTR 


}3 


Node tc_Node; 
tce_F lags; 
tc_State; 
tc_IDNestCnt; 
tce_TDNestCnt; 
tce_SigAlloc; 
tc_Sig Wait; 
tc_SigRecvd; 
tc_SigExcept; 
te_TrapAlloc; 
tc_TrapAble; 
tce_ExceptData; 
tc_ExceptCode; 
tc_TrapData; 
tc_TrapCode; 
tc_SPReg; 
tc_SPLower; 
tce_SPUpper; 
(*tc_Switch)(); 
(*tc_Launch)(); 


List tc_MemEntry; 


tc_UserData; 


/* intr disabled nesting */ 
/* task disabled nesting */ 
/* sigs allocated */ 

/* sigs we are waiting for */ 
/* sigs we have received */ 
/* sigs we will take excepts for */ 
/* traps allocated */ 

/* traps enabled */ 

/* points to except data */ 
/* points to except code */ 
/* points to trap code */ 

/* points to trap data */ 

/* stack pointer */ 

/* stack lower bound */ 

/* stack upper bound + 2*/ 
/* task losing CPU */ 

/* task getting CPU */ 

/* allocated memory */ 

/* per task data */ 


A similar assembly code structure is available in the ezec/tasks.7 include file. 


Most of these fields are not relevant for simple tasks; they are used by Exec for state 
and administrative purposes. A few fields, however, are provided for the advanced pro- 
grams that support higher level environments (as in the case of processes) or require pre- 
cise control (as in devices). The following sections explain these fields in more detail. 


Creation 


To create a new task you must allocate a task structure, initialize its various fields, and 
then link it into Exec with a call to AddTask(). The task structure may be allocated 
by calling the AllocMem() function with the MEMF_CLEAR and MEMF_PUBLIC 
allocation attributes. These attributes indicate that the data structure is to be pre- 


initialized to zero and that the structure is shared. 


Tasks 15 


The Task fields that require initialization depend on how you intend to use the task. 
For the simplest of tasks, only a few fields must be initialized: 


tc_Node 


The task list node structure. This includes the task’s priority, its type, and 
its name (refer to the “Lists and Queues” chapter). 


tc_SPLower 
The lower memory bound of the task’s stack 


tc_SPUpper 
The upper memory bound of the task’s stack 


tc_SPReg 


The initial stack pointer. Because task stacks grow downward in memory, 
this field is usually set to the same value as tc_SPUpper. 


Zeroing all other unused fields will cause Exec to supply the appropriate system default 
values. Allocating the structure with the MEMF_CLEAR attribute is an easy way to 
be sure that this happens. 


Once the structure has been initialized, it must be linked to Exec. This is done with a 
call to AddTask() in which the following parameters are specified: 


task 


initialP C 


finalPC 


A pointer to an initialized task structure. 


The entry point of your task code. This is the address of the first in- 
struction the new task will execute. 


The finalization code for your task. This is a code fragment that will 
receive control if the initiaIPC routine ever performs a return (RTS). 
This exists to prevent your task from being launched into random 
memory upon an accidental return. The finalPC routine should usu- 
ally perform various program-related clean-up duties and should then 
remove the task. If a zero is supplied as this parameter, Exec will use 
its default finalization code (which simply calls the RemTask() 
function) 


Depending on the priority of the new task and the priorities of other tasks in the sys- 
tem, the newly added task may immediately begin execution. 


Here is an example of simple task creation: 


16 Tasks 


#include ”exec/types.h” 
#include ”exec/memory.h” 
#include ”exec/tasks.h” 
#define STACK_SIZE 1000 
extern APTR AllocMem(); 
extern EntryPoint(); 


SimpleTask() 
{ 


struct Task *tc; 
APTR stack; 
stack = (APTR) AllocMem (STACK_SIZE, MEMF_CLEAR ); 
if (stack === 0) { 
printf ("not enough memory for task stack”); 
return(0); 


} 


te = (struct Task *) AllocMem (sizeof(struct Task), 
MEMF_CLEAR | MEMF_PUBLIC); 

if (tc == 0) { 
printf ("not enough memory for task control structure” ); 
FreeMem (stack, STACK_SIZE); 
return(0); 


task = (struct Task *) AllocMem (sizeof(struct Task), 
MEMF_CLEAR | MEMF_PUBLIC); 

if (tc == 0) { 
printf ("not enough memory for task name”); 
FreeMem (stack, STACK_SIZE); 
return(0); 


j 

tc -> tc_SPLower = (APTR) stack; 

tc -> tc_SPUpper = (APTR) (STACK_SIZE + (ULONG) stack); 
te -> tc_SPReg = tc-> tc_SPUpper; 


te -> tc_Node.lIn_Type = NT_TASK; 
tc -> tc_Node.lIn_Name = ”example.task”; 


AddTask (tc, EntryPoint, 0); 


Tasks 17 


STACK 


Every task requires a stack. All task stacks are user mode stacks (in the language of the 
68000) and are addressed through the A7 CPU register. All normal code execution oc- 
curs on this task stack. Special modes of execution (processor traps and system inter- 
rupts for example) execute on a single supervisor mode stack and do not directly affect 
task stacks. 


Task stacks are normally used to store local variables, subroutine return addresses, and 
saved register values. Additionally, when a task loses the processor, all of its current re- 
gisters are preserved on this stack (with the exception of the stack pointer itself, which 
must be saved in the task structure). 


The amount of stack used by a task can vary widely. The minimum stack size is 70 
bytes, which is the number required to save 17 CPU registers and a single return ad- 
dress. Of course, a stack of this size would not give you adequate space to perform any 
subroutine calls (because the return address occupies stack space). On the other hand, a 
stack size of 1I< would suffice to call most system functions but would not allow much in 
the way of local variable storage. 


Because stack-bounds checking is not provided as a service of Exec, it is important to 
provide enough space for your task stack. Stack overflows are always difficult to debug 
and may result not only in the erratic failure of your task but also in the mysterious 
malfunction of other Amiga subsystems. 


Termination 


Task termination may occur as the result of a number of situations: 


1. A program returning from its initialPC routine and dropping into its finalPC 
routine or the system default finalizer. 


bo 


A task trap that is too serious for a recovery action. This includes traps like 
processor bus error, odd address access errors, etc. 


3. A trap that is not handled by the task. For example, the task might be ter- 
minated if your code happened to encounter a processor TRAP instruction and 
you did not provide a trap handling routine. 


4. An explicit call to the Exec RemTask() function. 


18 Tasks 


Task termination involves the deallocation of system resources and the removal of the 
task structure from Exec. The most important part of task termination is the dealloca- 
tion of system resources. A task must return all memory that it allocated for its private 
use, it must terminate any outstanding I/O commands, and it must close access to any 
system libraries or devices that it has opened. 


It is wise to adopt a strategy for task clean-up responsibility. You should decide wheth- 
er resource allocation and deallocation is the duty of the creator task or the newly creat- 
ed task. Sometimes it is easier and safer for the creator to handle the necessary resource 
allocation and deallocation on behalf of its offspring. On the other hand, if you expect 
the creator to terminate before its offspring, it would not be able to handle resource 
deallocation. In such a case, each of its child tasks would need to deallocate its own 
resources. 


Signals 


Tasks often need to coordinate with other concurrent system activities (other tasks and 
interrupts). Such coordination is achieved through the synchronized exchange of specific 
event indicators called signals. This is the primary mechanism responsible for all inter- 
task communication and synchronization on the Amiga. 


The signal mechanism operates at a low level and is designed for high performance. Sig- 
nals often remain hidden from the user program. The message system, for instance, may 
use signals to indicate the arrival of a new message. The message system is described in 
more detail in chapter 3. 


The signal system is designed to support independent simultaneous events. Signals may 
be thought of as occurring in parallel. Each task may define up to 32 independent sig- 
nals. These signals are stored as single bits in a few fields of the task control structure, 
and one or more signals can occur at the same time. 


All of these signals are considered task relative: a task may assign its own significance to 
a particular signal. Signals are not broadcast to all tasks; they are directed only to indi- 
vidual tasks. A signal has meaning to the task that defined it and to those tasks that 
have been informed of its meaning. For example, signal bit 12 may indicate a timeout 
event to one task, but to another task it may indicate a message arrival event. 


Tasks 19 


ALLOCATION 


As mentioned above, a task assigns its own meaning to a particular signal. Because cer- 
tain system libraries may occasionally require the use of a signal, there is a convention 


for signal allocation. It is unwise ever to make assumptions about which signals are ac- 
tually in use. 


Before a signal can be used, it must be allocated with the AllocSignal() function. This 
marks the signal as being in use and prevents the accidental use of the same signal for 
more than one event. You may ask for either a specific signal number or the next free 
signal. The state of the newly allocated signal is cleared (ready for use). Generally it is 
best to let the system assign you the next free signal. Of the 32 available signals, the 
lower 16 are usually reserved for system use. This leaves the upper 16 signals free for 
the user. Other subsystems that you may call depend on AllocSignal(). 


The following C example asks for the next free signal to be allocated for its use: 


signal = AllocSignal(-1); 


if (signal == -1) { 
printf(”no signal bits available”); 
return; 

else { 


printf(” allocated signal number %ld”, signal); 


Note that the value returned by AllocSignal() is a signal bit number. This value can- 


not be used directly in calls to signal-related functions without first being converted to a 
mask: 


mask = 1 << signal; 
When a signal is no longer needed, it should be freed for reuse with FreeSignal(). 


It is important to realize that signal bit allocation is relevant only to the running task. 
You cannot allocate a signal from another task. 


20 Tasks 


WAITING FOR A SIGNAL 


Signals are most often used to wake up a task upon the occurrence of some external 
event. This happens when a task is in its wait state and another task (or a system in- 
terrupt) causes a signal. The Wait() function specifies the set of signals that will wake 
up the task and then puts the task to sleep (into the waiting state). Any one signal or 
any combination of signals from this set are sufficient to awake the task. Wait() returns 
a mask indicating which signals from this set satisfied the wait. The Wait() function 
implicitly clears those signals that satisfied the wait. This effectively resets those signals 
for reuse. 


Because tasks (and interrupts) normally execute asynchronously, it is often possible to 
receive a particular signal before a task actually waits for it. To avoid missing any 
events, programs should hold signals until the Wait() function is called, or until it is ex- 
plicitly cleared (with SetSignal()). In such cases a wait will be immediately satisfied, 
and the task will not be put to sleep. 


As mentioned earlier, a task may wait for more than one signal. When the task returns 
from the wait, the actual signal mask is returned. Usually the program must check 
which signals occurred and take the appropriate action. The order in which these bits 
are checked is often important. Here is a hypothetical example: 


signals == Wait (newCharSig | cancelSig | timeOutSig); 
if (signals & cancelSig) { 
printf (”canceled” ); 


if (signals & newCharSig) { 
printf ("new character” ); 


} 
if (signals & timeOutSig) { 
printf (”"timeout” ); 


This will put the task to sleep, waiting for a new character, a cancel event, or the ex- 
piration of a time period. Notice that this code checks for a cancel signal before check- 
ing for a new character or a timeout. Although a program can check for the occurrence 
of a particular event by checking whether its signal has occurred, this may lead to busy 
wait polling. Such polling is wasteful of the processor and is usually detrimental to the 
proper function of the system. 


Tasks 21 


GENERATING A SIGNAL 


Signals may be generated from both tasks and system interrupts with the Signal() func- 
tion. For example Signal(tc,mask) would signal the task with the mask signals. More 
than one signal can be specified in the mask. 


Exclusion 


From time to time the advanced system program may find it necessary to access global 
system data structures. Because these structures are shared by the system and by other 
tasks that execute asynchronously to your task, it is wise for you to exclude simultane- 
ous access to these structures. This can be accomplished by forbidding or disabling, or 
with the use of semaphores. A section of code that requires the use of any of these 
mechanisms to lock out access by others is termed a critical section. 


FORBIDDING 


Forbidding is used when a task is accessing shared structures that might also be accessed 
at the same time from another task. It effectively eliminates the possibility of simultane- 
ous access by imposing nonpreemptive task scheduling. This has the net effect of disa- 
bling multitasking for as long as your task remains in its running state. While forbid- 
den, your task will continue running until it performs a call to Wait() or exits from the 
forbidden state. Interrupts will occur normally, but no new tasks will be dispatched, re- 
gardless of their priorities. 


When a task running in the forbidden state calls the Wait() function, it implies a tem- 
porary exit from its forbidden state. While the task is waiting, the system will perform 
normally. When the task receives one of the signals it is waiting for, it will again reenter 
the forbidden state. To become forbidden, a task calls the Forbid() function. To es- 
cape, the Permit() function is used. The use of these functions may be nested with the 
expected affects; you will not exit the forbidden mode until you call the outermost Per- 
mit/(). 


As an example, Exec memory region lists should be accessed only when forbidden. To 
access these lists without forbidding jeopardizes the integrity of the entire system. 


22 Tasks 


struct ExecBase *eb; 
struct MemHeader *mh; 
APTR firsts[ARRAYSIZE]; 
int count; : 


Forbid(); 
for (mh = (struct MemHeader *) eb -> MemList.lh_Head; 
mh -> mh_Node.lIn_Suce; 
mh = mh -> mh_Node.In_Succ) { 
firsts[count+-+] = mh -> mh_First; 


Permit(); 


As this program traverses down the memory region list, it remains forbidden to prevent 
the list from changing as it is being accessed. 


DISABLING 


Disabling is similar to forbidding, but it also prevents interrupts from occurring during a 
critical section. Disabling is required when a task accesses structures that are shared by 
interrupt code. It eliminates the possibility of an interrupt accessing shared structures 
by preventing interrupts from occurring. 


To disable interrupts you can call the Disable() function. If you are writing in assem- 
bly code, the DISABLE macro is more efficient (but consumes more code space). To 
enable interrupts again, use the Enable() function and ENABLE macros. 


Like forbidden sections, disabled sections can be nested. Also like forbidden sections, the 
Wait() function implies an Enable() until the task again regains the processor. 


It is important to realize that there is a danger in using disabled sections. Because the 
software on the Amiga depends heavily on its interrupts occurring in nearly real time, 
you cannot disable for more than a very brief instant. A rule of thumb is to disable for 
no more than 250 microseconds. 


Masking interrupts by changing the 68000 processor interrupt priority levels with the 
MOVESR instruction can also be dangerous and is generally discouraged. The disable- 
and enahle-related functions and macros control interrupts through the 4703 custom 
chip and not through the 68000 priority level. In addition, the processor priority level 
can be altered only from supervisor mode (which means this process is much less 
efficient). 


Tasks 23 


It is never necessary to both disable and forbid. Because disable prevents interrupts, it 
also prevents preemptory task scheduling. Many Exec lists can only be accessed while 
disabled. Suppose you want to print the names of all waiting tasks. You would need to 
access the task list from a disabled section. In addition, you must avoid calling certain 
system functions that require multitasking to function properly (printf() for example). 
In this example, the names are gathered into a name array while the code section is dis- 
abled. Then the code section is enabled and the names are printed. 


#include ”exec/types.h” 

#include ”exec/execbase.h” 
#include ”exec/tasks.h” 

extern struct ExecBase *SysBase; 


main() 


} 


struct Task *task; 
char *names([20]; 
int count, i; 

count = 0; 
Delay(50); 
Disable(); 


for (task = (struct Task *)SysBase->Task Wait.lh_Head; 
task- >tc_Node.In_Suce; /* stop when Successor node == 0 */ 
task = (struct Task *)task->tc_Node.In_Succ) { 
names[count+-+] == task->tc_Node.In_Name; 
Enable(); 
for (i = 0; i < count; i++) 


printf (” %s\n ”, names{i]); 


Of course, the code in this example will have problems if a waiting task is removed be- 
fore its name is printed. If this were to happen, the name-string pointer would no longer 


be valid. 


To avoid such problems it is a good programming practice to copy the entire 


name string into a temporary buffer. 


24 Tasks 


SEMAPHORES 


Messages and message ports can be used as semaphores for the purposes of mutual exclu- 
sion. With this method of locking, all tasks agree on a locking convention before access- 
ing shared data structures. Tasks that do not require access are not affected and will 
run normally, so this type of exclusion is considered preferable to forbidding and disa- 
bling. Unfortunately, semaphores also represent a considerable amount of overhead for 
simple system operations and are not used internal to Exec for efficiency reasons. This 
form of exclusion is explained in more detail in the ‘‘Messages and Ports” chapter. 


Exceptions 


Tasks can specify that certain asynchronous events cause exceptions, which are task- 
private interrupts that redirect a task’s flow of control: The task essentially suspends 
what it is doing and enters a special routine to process its exceptional event. 


Exceptions are driven by the task signal mechanism described earlier in this chapter. In- 
stead of waiting for a signal to occur, you indicate that it is an exception signal with the 
SigExcept() function. When the signal occurs, the task will be “interrupted” from its 
normal execution and placed in a special exception handler. 


The tc_ExceptCode and tc_ExceptData task fields are used to establish the excep- 
tion handler. The field tec_ExceptCode points to the routine that will handle the ini- 
tial processing of all exceptions. If this field is zero, Exec will ignore all exceptions. The 
te_ExceptData field can be used to provide a pointer to related data structure. 


On entry to the exception code, the system passes certain parameters in the processor re- 
gisters. DO contains a signal mask indicating which exception has just occurred, and Al 
points to the related exception data (from te_ExceptData). In addition, the previous 
task context is pushed onto the task’s stack. This includes the previous PC, SR, DO-D7, 
and AO-AG registers. You can think of an exception as a subtask outside of your normal 
task. Because task exception code executes in user mode, however, the task stack must 
be large enough to supply the extra space consumed during an exception. 


While processing a given exception, Exec prevents that exception from occurring recur- 
sively. At exit from your exception-processing code you should return the same value in 
DO to re-enable that exception signal. When the task executes the RTS at the end of 
the handler, the system restores the previous contents of all of the task registers and 
resumes the task at the point where it was interrupted by the exception signal. When 
two or more exception codes occur simultaneously, the exception-processing code 
determines the order in which they are handled by the order in which the signal bits are 
examined. 


Tasks 25 


Traps 


Task traps are synchronous exceptions to the normal flow of program control. They are 
always generated as a direct result of an operation performed by your program’s code. 
Whether they are accidental or purposely generated, they will result in your program be- 
ing forced into a special condition in which it must immediately handle the trap. Ad- 
dress error, privilege violation, zero divide, and trap instructions all result in task traps. 
They may be generated directly by the 68000 processor (Motorola calls them ‘“‘excep- 
tions”) or simulated by software. 


A task that incurs a trap has no choice but to respond immediately. The task must 
have a module of code to properly handle the trap. Your task may be aborted if a trap 
occurs and no means of handling it has been provided. 


You may choose to do your own processing of traps. The tc_TrapCode field is the ad- 
dress of the handler that you have designed to process the trap. The tc_TrapData 
field is the address of the data area for use by the trap handler. 


The 68000 traps of interest are: 


2 Bus error 

3 Address error 

4 Illegal instruction 

5 Zero divide 

6 CHIC instruction 

7 TRAPYV instruction 
8 Privilege violation 
9 Trace 

10 Line 1010 emulator 
11 Line 1111 emulator 


32-47 Trap instructions 


26 Tasks 


The actual stack frames generated for these traps are processor-dependent. The 68010 
and 68020 processors will generate a different type of stack frame than the 68000. If you 
plan on having your program handle its own traps, you should not make assumptions 
about the format of the supervisor stack frame. Check the flags in the AttnF lags field 
of the ExecBase structure for the type of processor in use and process the stack frame 
accordingly. 


HANDLERS 


For compatibility with the 68000, Exec performs trap handling in supervisor mode. This 
means that all task switching is disabled during trap handling. At entry to the task’s 
trap handler, the system stack does contain the trap frame as defined in the 68000 
manual. A longword exception number is added at the bottom of this frame. That is, 
when a handler gains control, the top of stack contains the exception number and the 
68000 frame immediately follows. 


To return from trap processing, remove the exception number from the stack (note that 
this is the supervisor stack, not the user stack) and then perform a return from excep- 
tion (RTE). 


Because trap processing takes place in supervisor mode, with task dispatching disabled, 
it is strongly urged that you keep trap processing as short as possible or switch back to 
user mode from within your trap handler. If a trap handler already exists when you add 
your own trap handler, it is smart to propagate any traps that you do not handle down 
to the previous handler. This can be done by saving the previous te_TrapCode and 
tc_TrapData for use by your handler. 


TRAP INSTRUCTIONS 


The TRAP instructions in the 68000 generate traps 32-47. Because many independent 
pieces of system code may desire to use these traps, the AllocTrap() and FreeTrap() 
functions are provided. These work in a fashion similar to that used by AllocSignal() 
and FreeSignal(), mentioned above. 


Allocating traps is simply a bookkeeping job within a task. It does not affect how the 
system calls the trap handler; it helps coordinate who owns what traps. Exec does noth- 
ing to determine whether or not the task is prepared to handle this particular trap. It 
simply calls your code. It is up to your program to handle the trap. 


Tasks 27 


To allocate any trap, you can use the following code: 


trap = AllocTrap(-1); 

if (trap == -1) { 
printf(”all trap instructions are in use” ); 
return; 


} 


or you can select a specific trap using this code: 


trap = AllocTrap(3); 


if (trap == -1) { 
printf("trap #3 is in use”); 
return; 


} 


To free a trap you use FreeTrap(). 


28 Tasks 


Chapter 3 


MESSAGES AND PORTS 


Introduction 


For intersystem communication, Exec provides a consistent, high-performance mechan- 
ism of messages and ports. This mechanism is used to pass message structures of arbi- 
trary sizes from task to task, interrupt to task, or task to software interrupt. In addi- 


tion, messages are often used to coordinate operations between a number of cooperating 
tasks. 


Messages and Ports 29 


A message data structure has two parts: system linkage and message body. The sys- 
tem linkage is used by Exec to attach a given message to its destination. The message 
body contains the actual data of interest. The message body is any arbitrary data block 
less than 64KX bytes in size. 


Messages are always sent to a predetermined destination port. At a port, incoming mes- 
sages are queued in a first-in-first-out (FIFO) order. There are no system restrictions on 
the number of ports or the number of messages that may be queued to a port (other 
than the amount of available system memory). 


Messages are always queued by reference. For performance reasons message copying is 
not performed. In essence, a message between two tasks is a temporary license for the 
receiving task to use a portion of the memory space of the sending task—that portion 
being the message itself. This means that if task A sends a message to task B, the mes- 
sage is still part of the task A context. Task A, however, should not access the message 
until it has been replied —that is, until task B has sent the message back, using the 
ReplyMsg() function. This technique of message exchange imposes important restric- 
tions on message access. 


Ports 


Ports are rendezvous points at which messages are collected. A port may contain any 
number of outstanding messages from many different originators. When a message 
arrives at a port, the message is appended to the end of the list of messages for that 
port, and a prespecified arrival action is invoked. This action may do nothing, or it may 
cause a predefined task signal or software interrupt (see the “Interrupts” chapter). 


Like many Exec structures, ports may be given a symbolic name. Such names are par- 
ticularly useful for tasks that must rendezvous with dynamically created ports. They 
are also useful for debugging purposes. 


STRUCTURE 


A message port consists of a MsgPort structure as defined in the exec/ports.h and 
exec/ports.i include files. The C structure for a port is as follows: 


30 Messages and Ports 


struct MsgPort { 
struct Node mp_Node; 
UBYTE mp_Flags; 
UBYTE mp_SigBit; 
struct Task *mp_SigTask; 
struct List mp_MsgList; 


}3 
where 

mp_Node 
is a standard Node structure. This is useful for tasks that might want to 
rendezvous with a particular message port by name. 

mp_Flags 
are used to indicate message arrival actions. See the explanation below. 

mp_SigBit 
is the signal bit number when a port is used with the task signal arrival 
action. 

mp_SigTask 
is a pointer to the task to be signaled. If a software-interrupt arrival action 
is specified, this is a pointer to the interrupt structure. 

mp_MsgList 


is the list header for all messages queued to this port. (See the “Lists and 
Queues” chapter). 


The mp_Flags field contains a subfield indicated by the PF_ACTION mask. This 
sub-field specifies the message arrival action that occurs when a port receives a new mes- 
sage. The possibilities are as follows: 


PA_SIGNAL 
This subfield tells the program to signal the specified task on the arrival of 
a new message. Every time a message is put to the port another signal will 
occur regardless of how many messages have been queued to the port. 


PA_SOFTINT 
This subfield causes the specified software interrupt. Like PA_SIGNAL, 
PA_SOFTINT will cause the software interrupt to be posted every time a 
message is received. 


Messages and Ports 31 


PA_IGNORE 
This subfield tells the program to perform no operation other than queuing 
the message. This action is often used to stop signaling or software inter- 
rupts without disturbing the contents of the mp_SigTask field. 


It is important to realize that a port’s arrival action will occur for each new message 
queued, and that there is not a one-to-one correspondence between messages and signals. 
Task signals are only single-bit flags so there is no record of how many times a particu- 
lar signal occurred. There may be many messages queued and only a single task signal. 
All of this has certain implications when designing code that deals with these actions. 
Your code should not depend on receiving a signal for every message at your port. All 
of this is also true for software interrupts. 


CREATION 


To create a new message port, you must allocate and initialize a MsgPort structure. If 
you desire to make the port public, you will also need to call the AddPort() function. 
Port structure initialization involves setting up a Node structure, establishing the mes- 
sage arrival action with its parameters, and initializing the list header. The following 
example of port creation is equivalent to the CreatePort() function as supplied in 
amiga. (2b: 


extern APTR AllocMem(); 
extern UBYTE AllocSignal(); 
extern struct Task *FindTask(); 


struct MsgPort * 
CreatePort (name, pri) 
char *name; 
BYTE pri; 
{ 

int sigBit; 

struct MsgPort *mp; 


if ((sigBit = AllocSignal (-1)) == -1) 
return ((struct MsgPort *) 0); 


port = AllocMem (sizeof(*port), MEMF_CLEAR | MEMF_PUBLIC); 
if (port == 0) { 

FreeSignal (sigBit); 

return ((struct MsgPort *) (0)); 


32 Messages and Ports 


mp->mp_Node.In_Name = name; 
mp->mp_Node.In_Pri = pri; 
mp->mp_Node.lIn_Type = NT_MSGPORT; 


mp->mp_Flags = PA_SIGNAL; 
mp->mp_SigBit = sigBit; 
mp->mp_SigTask = FindTask (0); 


if (name != 0) { 
AddPort (mp); 
} else { 
NewList (&mp->mp_MsgList); 


return (mp); 


DELETION 


Before a message port is deleted, all outstanding messages from other tasks must be 
returned. This is done by replying to each message until the message queue is empty. 
Of course, there is no need to reply to messages owned by the current task (the task per- 
forming the port deletion). Public ports attached to the system with AddPort() must 
be removed from the system with RemPort(). 


RENDEZVOUS 


The FindPort() function provides a means of finding the address of a public port given 
its symbolic name. For example, FindPort(‘“‘Spyder”’) will return either the address of 
the message port or a zero indicating that no such public port exists. Names should.be 
made rather unique to prevent collisions among multiple applications. It is a good idea 
to use your application name as a prefix for your port name. 


Messages 


As mentioned earlier, a message contains both system header information and the actual 
message content. The system header is of the Message form defined in ezec/ports.h 
and ezec/ports.t. In C this structure is as follows: 


Messages and Ports 33 


struct Message { 
struct Node mn_Node; 
struct MsgPort *mn_ReplyPort; 
UWORD mn_Length; 


}3 
where 


mn_Node 
is a standard Node structure used for port linkage. 


mn_ReplyPort 
is used to indicate a port to which this message will be returned when a 
reply is necessary. 


mn_Length 
indicates the length of the message body in bytes. 


This structure is always attached to the head of all messages. For example, if you want 
a message structure that contains the x and y coordinates of a point on the screen, you 
could define it as follows: 


struct XYMessage { 
struct Message xy_Msg; 
UWORD «x,y; 


} 


For this structure, the mn_Length field should be set to sizeof X YMessage. 


PUTTING A MESSAGE 


A message is delivered to a given destination port with the PutMsg() function. The 
message is queued to the port, and that port’s arrival action is invoked. If the action 
specifies a task signal or a software interrupt, the originating task may temporarily lose 
the processor while the destination processes the message. If a reply to the message is 
required, the mn_ReplyPort field must be set up prior to the call to PutMsg(). 


Here is a simple program fragment for putting a message to a public port: 


34 Messages and Ports 


struct MsgPort *mp, *replymp; 
struct XYMessage *xymsg; 


xymsg = (struct XYMessage*) AllocMem (sizeof(*xymsg), MEMF_PUBLIC); 
if (xymsg === 0) { 

printf ("not enough memory for message”); 

return; 


} 


replymp = CreatePort (”xyreplyport” ,O); 
/* as defined earlier in this chapter */ 

if (replymp == 0) { 
printf ("could not create the reply port” ); 
FreeMem (xymsg, sizeof(*xymsg)); 
return; 


} 


xymsg -> xy_Msg.mn_Node.In_Type = NT_MESSAGE; 
xymsg -> xy_Msg.mn_ReplyPort = replyport; 


mp = FindPort (”"Spyder”); 

if (mp == 0) { 
printf ("Spyder port not found”); 
return; 


} 


PutMsg (mp, xymsg); 


WAITING FOR A MESSAGE 


A task may go to sleep waiting for a message to arrive at one or more ports. This tech- 
nique is widely used on the Amiga as a general form of event notification. For example, 
it is used extensively by tasks for I/O request completion. 


To wait for the arrival of a message, the message port must be properly initialized. In 
particular, the mp_SigTask field must contain the address of the task to be signaled 
and mp_SigBit must contain a preallocated signal number (as described in the ‘“Tasks” 
chapter). You can call the WaitPort() function to wait for a message to arrive at a 
port. This function will return the first message queued to a port. If the port is empty, 


your task will go to sleep waiting for the first message. If the port is not empty, your 
task will not go to sleep. 


Messages and Ports 35 


A more general form of waiting for a message involves the use of the Wait() function 
(see the “Tasks” chapter). This function waits for task event signals directly. If the 
signal assigned to the message port occurs, the task will awaken. Using the Wait() 
function is more general because you can wait for more than just a single message port. 
For example, you may want to wait for a message and a timeout signal. The Wait() 
function lets you specify a mask containing the signals associated with your message 
port and your timeout signal. 


Here’s an example using WaitPort(): 


struct MsgPort *mp; 
struct Message *msg, *WaitPort(); 
int SigBit; 


SigBit = AllocSignal (-1); 

if (SigBit == -1) { 
printf (”no free signal bits” ); 
return; 


} 
mp -> mp_Flags |= PA_signal; 
mp -> mp_SigBit = SigBit; 
mp -> mp_SigTask = FindTask (0); /* self */ 
msg = WaitPort (mp); 
Note that WaitPort() only returns a pointer to the first message in a port. It does not 


actually remove the message from the port queue. 


GETTING A MESSAGE 


Messages are usually removed from ports with the GetMsg() function. This function 
removes the next message at the head of the port queue and returns a pointer to it. If 
there are no messages in a port, this function returns a zero. 


The example below illustrates the use of GetMsg() to print the contents of all messages 
in a port: 


while ((msg = GetMsg (mp)) != 0) { 
printf ("x—%ld y=%ld”, msg->x, msg->y)} 
} 


36 Messages and Ports 


Certain messages may be more important than others. Because ports impose FIFO ord- 
ering, these important messages may get queued behind other messages regardless of 
their priority. If it is necessary to recognize more important messages, it is easiest to 
create another port for these special messages. 


REPLYING 


When the operations associated with receiving a new message are finished, it is usually 
necessary to send the message back to the originator. The receiver replies the message 
by returning it to the originator using the ReplyMsg() function. This is important 
because it notifies the originator that the message can be reused or deallocated. The 
ReplyMsg() function serves this purpose. It returns the message to the port specified 
in the mn_ReplyPort field of the message. If this field is zero, no reply is returned. 


The previous example can be enhanced to reply to each of its messages: 


while ((msg = GetMsg (mp)) != 0) { 
printf ("x=%ld y=%ld”, msg->x, msg->y); 
ReplyMsg (msg); 


Notice that the reply does not occur until after the message values have been used. 


Often the operations associated with receiving a message involve returning results to the 
originator. Typically this is done within the message itself. The receiver places the 
results in fields defined (or perhaps reused) within the message body before replying the 
message back to the originator. Receipt of the replied message at the originator’s reply 
port indicates it is once again safe for the originator to use or change the values found 
within the message. 


Messages and Ports 37 


Chapter 4 


INPUT/OUTPUT 


Introduction 


One of the primary purposes of Exec is to provide a standard form for all device 
input/output (I/O). This includes the definition of a standard device interface, the for- 
mat for I/O requests, and the establishment of rules for normal device/task interaction, 
In addition, the guidelines for nonstandard device I/O are also defined. In the design of 
the Amiga I/O system, great care has been taken to avoid dictating the form of imple- 
mentation or the internal operational characteristics of a device. 


Input/Output 39 


In its purest sense, a device is an abstraction that represents a set of well-defined 
interactions with some form of physical media. This abstraction is supported by a stan- 
dard Exec data structure and an independent system code module. The data structure 
provides the external interface and maintains the current device state. The code module 
supplies the operations necessary to make the device functional. (In many operating sys- 
tems, this code module is referred to as a device driver. See Amiga ROM Kernel Refer- 
ence Manual: Libraries and Devices for the source assembly language code for a disk- 
resident device driver with its own task for handling I/O requests.) 


A device unit is an instance of a device. It shares the same device data structure and 
code module with all other units of the same device; however, it operates in an indepen- 
dent fashion. Often units correspond to separate physical subsystems of the same gen- 
eral device class. For example, each Amiga floppy disk drive is an independent unit of 
the same device. There is only one device data structure and one code module to sup- 
port all of these units. 


Exec I/O is often performed using the message system described in the chapter 3. Most 
aspects of message passing are concealed within the Exec I/O support routines. How- 
ever, it is important to realize that I/O request blocks, once issued, must not be modified 
or reused until they are returned to your program’s control by Exec. 


Request Structure 


An I/O request is always directed to a device unit. This request is organized as a control 
block and contains a command to be performed on a specified unit. It is passed through 
a standard device interface function, where it is processed and executed by the device’s 
code module. All request parameters are included in the request control block, and I/O 
request results are returned in the same control block. 


Every device unit responds to a standard set of commands, and may optionally provide 
a nonstandard set of commands as well. The standard commands are explained later in 
this chapter. Nonstandard commands are discussed in the documentation pertaining to 
the particular device involved. 


An I/O request always includes at least an IORequest data structure. This is a stan- 


dard header used for all I/O requests. It is defined in the ezec/io.h and ezec/to.z include 
files as follows: 


40 Input/Output 


struct IORequest { 


struct Message *io_Message; 
struct Device *io_Device; 
struct Unit *io_Unit; 


UWORD = io_Command; 
UBYTE _io_Flags; 
BYTE io_Error; 


where 


io_Message 
is a message header (see the “Messages and Ports” chapter). This header is 
used by the device to return I/O requests upon completion. It is also used 
by devices internally for I/O request queuing. This header must be prop- 
erly initialized for I/O to work correctly. 


io_ Device 
is a pointer to the device data structure node. This field is automatically 
set up by an Exec function when the device is opened. | 


io_Unit 
specifies a unit to the device internally. This is a device private field and 
should not be accessed by the user. The format of this field is device 
dependent and is set up by the device during the open sequence. 


io_ Command 
is the command requested. This may be either one of the system standard 
commands or a device-specific command. 


io_F lags 
is used to indicate special request options and state. This field is divided 
into two subfields of four bits each. The lower four bits are for use by Exec 
and the upper four bits are available to the device. 


io_Error 
is an error or warning number returned upon request completion. 


The io_Device, io_Unit, and io_Command fields are not affected by the servicing of 
the request. This permits repeated I/O using the same request. 


Input/Output 41 


The standard I/O requests use an expanded form of the IORequest structure: 


struct IOStdReq { 


struct Message io_Message; 
struct Device *io_Device; 
struct Unit *io_Unit; 


UWORD _io_Command; 
UBYTE _io_Flags; 
BYTE io_Error; 
ULONG __io_Actual; 
ULONG _io_Length; 
APTR io_ Data; 
ULONG __io_Offset; 

} 


where the additional fields are used as follows: 


io_Actual 


indicates the actual number of bytes transferred. This field is valid only 
upon completion. 


io_Length 
is the requested number of bytes to transfer. This field must be set up 


prior to the request. A special length of -1 is often used to indicate 
variable-length transfers. 


io_Data 
is a pointer to the transfer data buffer. 


io_ Offset 


indicates a byte offset (for structured devices). For block-structured devices 


(such as a floppy disk device) this number must be a multiple of the block 
size. 


Devices with nonstandard commands may add their own special fields to the I/O request 
structure as needed. Such extensions are device specific. 


42 Input/Output 


Interface Functions 


Four Exec functions are responsible for interfacing I/O requests to actual device drivers. 
These functions operate independently of the particular device command requested. 
They deal with the request block as a whole, ignoring its command and its command 
parameters. 


DoIO() is the most commonly used I/O function. It initiates an I/O request and 
waits for its completion. This is a synchronous form of device I/O; control 
is not returned to the caller until completion. 


SendIO() 
is used to initiate an I/O request without waiting for completion. This is 
an asynchronous form of device I/O; control is returned even if the request 
has not completed. 


WaitIO() 
is used to wait for the completion of a previously initiated asynchronous 
1/O request. This function will not return control until the request has 
completed (successfully or unsuccessfully). 


CheckIO() 
is used to see if an asynchronous I/O request has completed. 


In addition to the above Exec functions, there are two I/O related functions that are 
actually direct entries into the device driver itself. These functions are part of the 
actual device driver interface to the system and should be used with care. They incur 
slightly less overhead but require more knowledge of the I/O system internals (you must 
know how quick I/O works, for instance): 


BeginIO() 
initiates an IO request. The request will be synchronous or asynchronous 
depending on the device driver. 


AbortIO() 
attempts to cancel a previous I/O request. This function is easily accessed 
as an assembly code macro ABORTIO or through the C library Exec sup- 
port function AbortIO(). 


Input/Output 43 


Standard Commands 


There are eight standard commands to which all devices are expected to respond. If the 
device is not capable of performing one of these commands, it will at least return an 
error indication that the command is not supported. These commands are defined in the 
ezec/to.h and ezxec/to.2 include files. 


CMD_RESET 
This command resets the device unit. It completely initializes the device 
unit, returning it to its default configuration, aborting all of its pending 


I/O, cleaning up any internal data structures, and resetting any related 
hardware. 


CMD_READ 
This command reads a specified number of bytes from a device unit into 
the data buffer. The number of bytes to be read is specified in the 


io_Length field. The number of bytes actually read is returned in the 
io_Actual field. 


CMD_WRITE 
This command writes a specified number of bytes to'a device unit from a 
data buffer. The number of bytes to be written is specified in the 


io_Length field. The number of bytes actually written is returned in the 
io_Actual field. 


CMD_UPDATE 
This command forces out all internal buffers, causing device internal 
memory buffers to be written out to the physical device unit. A device will 
transparently perform this operation when necessary, but this command 
allows you to request explicitly that such an action take place. It is useful 
for devices that maintain internal caches, such as the floppy disk device. 


CMD_CLEAR 
This command clears all internal buffers. It deletes the entire contents of a 
device unit’s internal buffers. No update is performed; all data is lost. 


CMD_STOP 
This command stops the device unit immediately (at the first opportunity). 
All I/O requests continue to queue, but the device unit stops servicing: 
them. This command is useful for devices that may require user interven- 
tion (printers, plotters, data networks, etc.). 


44 Input/Output 


CMD_START 
This command causes the device unit to continue after a previous 
CMD_STOP command. The device resumes from where it was stopped. 


CMD_FLUSH 
This command aborts all 1/O requests, returning all pending I/O requests 
with an error message. 


CMD_NONSTD 
Any nonstandard commands begin here. Non standard commands are 
designated as CMD_NONSTD+0, CMD_NONSTD-+1, and so on. 


CMD_INVALID 
This is a command to which the device should not respond. 


Performing I/O 


In Exec, I/O is always performed using I/O request blocks. Before I/O is performed, the 
request block must be properly initialized by both the system and the user. Once this 
has been done, normal I/O may commence. 


PREPARATION 


Devices are identified within the system by name (a null-terminated character string). 
Device units are usually identified by number. The OpenDevice() function maps the 
device name to an actual device and then calls the device to perform its initialization. 
The device will map the unit number into an internal form for later use. Both Exec and 
the device driver will initialize the I/O request passed to OpenDevice(). 


For example, OpenDevice(‘“‘trackdisk.device’’,1,ior,0) will attempt to open unit one 
of the floppy disk device, mapping its symbolic name into the address of a device data 
structure. It also sets up a few internal fields of the request. OpenDevice() will return 
a zero if it was successful and a nonzero error number if it was not. 


Input/Output 45 


SYNCHRONOUS REQUESTS 


Synchronous I/O requests are initiated with the DoIO() function mentioned earlier. 
DoIO() will not return control until the request has completed. Because the device may 
respond to a request immediately or queue it for later action, an undetermined amount 
of time may pass before control is returned. With this type of I/O, only one request is 
serviced at a time. 


To perform synchronous I/O, the I/O request block must be prepared as described in 
the previous section. In addition, io_Message, io_Command, and perhaps other fields 
must be initialized. 


The io_Message field is set up in the same manner as a message. This is described in 
the “‘Messages and Ports” chapter. 


The io_Command field is set to the desired command. For example: 


ior->io_Command = CMD_RESET; 
DolO (ior); 


performs a reset command. 


More involved commands require other fields to be initialized. For example, the com- 
mands to read a sector from a disk might look something like the following: 


ior->io_Command = CMD_READ; 
ior->io_Length = TD_SECTOR; 
ior->io_Offset = 20 * TD_SECTOR; 
ior->io_Data = buffer; 

DolIO (ior); 


When the request has completed, the request block is returned with the command 
results. If an error occurred, DoIO() will return the error number. The error number is 
also indicated in the io_Error field of the request. 


46 Input/Output 


ASYNCHRONOUS REQUESTS 


More efficient programs can take advantage of the multitasking characteristics of the 
I/O system by using asynchronous I/O, which allows many requests to be performed at 
the same time. This type of I/O is supported by the SendIO(), WaitIO(), 
CheckIO(), BeginIO(), and AbortIO() functions. Asynchronous I/O requests will 
return almost immediately to the user regardless of whether the request has actually 
completed. This lets the user maintain control while the I/O is being performed. Multi- 
ple I/O requests can be posted in this fashion. 


In the disk read example above, asynchronous I/O could be performed by changing the 
DoIO() call to a SendIO(): 


ior->io_Command = CMD_READ; 
ior->io_Length = TD_SECTOR; 
ior->io_Offset = 20 * TD_SECTOR; 
ior->io_Data = buffer; 

SendIO (ior); 


From the time the I/O has been initiated to the time it completes, the request block 
should not be directly accessed by the program. The device can be said to “own” the 
request block. Only after the request has completed or successfully aborted should your 
program access it. 


When the I/O completes, the device will return the I/O request block to the reply port 
specified in its io_Message field. After this has happened, you know that the device 
has finished the I/O. The reply port used to receive the returned request can be set up 
to cause a task signal when the reply arrives. This technique lets a task sleep until the 
the request is complete. The WaitIO() function can be called to wait for the comple- 
tion of a previously initiated request. 


WaitIO() will handle all of the interaction with the message reply port automatically. 
If you are using just the Wait() function, do not forget to remove the I/O request from 
your reply port with GetMsg(). Once this is done, the request may be reused. 


The CheckIO() function is handy to determine if a particular I/O request has been 
satisfied. This function deals with some of the subtleties of I/O in the proper manner. 


If you wish to queue several I/O requests to a device, you must issue multiple SendIO() 
requests, each with its own separately-opened request structure. This type of I/O is sup- 
ported by most devices. A task can also request I/O from a number of devices and then 
check later for their completion. 


Input/Output 47 


Exec also allows for certain types of optimization in device communication. One form of 
optimization, in which you call the device driver directly, is called quick I/O. This con- 
cept is discussed later in this chapter. 


CONCLUSION 


When a request has completed its I/O, access to the device should be concluded with 
CloseDevice(). This function will inform the device that no further I/O is to be per- 


formed with this request. For every OpenDevice() there must be a corresponding 
CloseDevice(). 


QUICK 1/0 


For some types of I/O, the normal internal mechanisms of I/O may present a large 
amount of overhead. This is mostly true for character-oriented I/O, in which each char- 
acter might be transferred with a separate I/O request. The overhead for such requests 
could significantly overload the I/O system, resulting in a loss of efficiency for the overall 
system. 


To allow devices to optimize their I/O handling, a mechanism called quick I/O was 
created. In the IORequest data structure, one of the io_flags is reserved for quick I/O. 
When set prior to an I/O request, this flag indicates that the device is allowed to handle 
the I/O in a special manner. This enables some devices to take certain ‘‘short-cuts” 
when it comes to performing and completing the request. 


The quick I/O bit (IOB_QUICK) allows the device to avoid returning the I/O request to 
the user via the message system (for example, via ReplyMsg()) if it can complete the 
request immediately. If the IOB-QUICK bit is still set at the end of the BeginIO() call, 
the request has already completed and the user will not find the I/O request on his reply 
port. 


The DoIO() function normally requests the quick I/O option, whereas the SendIO() 
function does not. Complete control over the mode for quick I/O is possible by calling a 
device’s BeginIO() entry directly. 


It is up to the device to determine whether it can handle a request marked as quick I/O. 
If the quick I/O flag is still set when the request has completed, the I/O was performed 
quickly. This means that no message reply occurred, so the message has not been 
queued to the reply port. 


48 Input/Output 


Standard Devices 


The following standard system devices are normally available when the Amiga starts up. 
Each of these devices is described in Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: Libraries 
and Devices. 


Timer Provides a flexible way of causing task signals or interrupts at second and 
microsecond intervals. 


Trackdisk Provides direct access to the 3 1/2-inch and 5 1/4-inch floppy disk drives. 
Among the functions provided are format, seek, read, and write. Nor- 
mally, trackdisk is used only by AmigaDOS; its functions are enumerated 
here for direct access where required. 


Keyboard Handles raw information from the keyboard and converts it into input 
events that can be retrieved and interpreted. Keyboard input events are 
queued so that no keystrokes will be missed. 


Gameport Handles raw information from the mouse or a joystick device. Gameport 
events are queued so that no movements will be missed. You can tell the 
system what type of device is connected and how often to check and report 
the current status of the device. 


Input The input device combines requests from both the keyboard and the 
gameport device. Input events from both are merged into a single input 
event stream on a first-in-first-out basis. 


Console The console device receives its input from the input device. The input por- 
tion of the console device is simply a handler for input events filtered by 
Intuition. It provides what might be called the “traditional’’ user 


interface. 
Audio The audio device is provided to control the use of the audio channels. 
Narrator The narrator device is loaded from disk and uses the audio device to pro- 


duce humanlike synthesized speech. 


Serial The serial device is loaded from disk and initialized on being loaded. It 
controls serial communications buffering of the input/output, baud rate, 
and so on. 


Input/Output 49 


Parallel The parallel device is loaded from disk and initialized on being loaded. It 
controls parallel communications. The parallel device is most often used 
by a parallel printer driver. 


Printer The printer device driver is loaded from disk. Printers that are supported 
as of this writing are specified in the ‘‘Printer Device Support Code” 
appendix of the Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: Libraries and 
Devices. 


Clipboard The clipboard device provides a means of “cutting” data from and “past- 
ing”’ data into applications. 


50 Input/Output 


Chapter 5 


INTERRUPTS 


Introduction 


Exec manages the decoding, dispatching, and sharing of all system interrupts. This 
includes control of hardware interrupts, software interrupts, task-relative interrupts (see 
the “Tasks” chapter), and interrupt disabling/enabling. In addition, Exec supports a 
more extended prioritization of interrupts than that provided in the 68000. 


Interrupts 51 


The proper operation of multitasking depends heavily on the consistent management of 
the interrupt system. Task activities are often driven by intersystem communication 
that is originated by various interrupts. , 


SEQUENCE OF EVENTS 


Before useful interrupt handling code can be executed, a considerable amount of 
hardware and software activity must occur. Each interrupt must propagate through 
several hardware and software interfaces before application code is finally dispatched: 


1. 


A hardware device decides to cause an interrupt and sends a signal to the 
interrupt control portions of the 4703 custom chip. 


The 4703 interrupt control logic notices this new signal and performs two pri- 
mary operations. First, it records that the interrupt has been requested by set- 
ting a flag bit in the INTREQ register. Second, it examines the INTENA regis- 
ter to determine whether the corresponding interrupt and the interrupt master 
are enabled. If both are enabled, the 4703 generates a set of three 68000 
interrupt request signals. See the Amiga Hardware Reference Manual for a 
more complete explanation of how this is done. 


These three signals correspond to seven interrupt priority levels in the 68000. If 
the priority of the new interrupt is greater than the current processor priority, 
an interrupt sequence is initiated. The priority level of the new interrupt is 
used to index into the top seven words of the processor address space. The odd 
byte (a vector number) of the indexed word is fetched and then shifted left by 
two to create a low memory vector address. 


The 68000 then switches into supervisor mode (if it is not already in that 
mode), and saves copies of the status register and program counter (PC) onto 
the top of the system stack. The processor priority is then raised to the level of 
the active interrupt. 


From the low memory vector address (calculated in step three above), a 32-bit 
autovector address is fetched and loaded into the program counter. This is an 
entry point into Exec’s interrupt dispatcher. 


Exec must now further decode the interrupt by examining the INTREQ and 
INTENA 4703 chip registers. Once the active interrupt has been determined, 
Exec indexes into an ExecBase array to fetch the interrupt’s handler entry 
point and handler data pointer addresses. 


52 Interrupts 


7. Exec now turns control over to the interrupt handler by calling it as if it were a 
subroutine. This handler may deal with the interrupt directly or may pro- 
pagate control further by invoking interrupt server chain processing. 


You can see from the above discussion that the interrupt autovectors should never be 
altered by the user. If you wish to provide your own interrupt handler, you must use the 
Exec SetIntVector() function. Changing the content of any autovector location 
violates the design rules of the Multitasking Executive. 


Task multiplexing usually occurs as the result of an interrupt. When an interrupt has 
finished and the processor is about to return to user mode, Exec determines whether 
task-scheduling attention is required. If a task was signaled during interrupt processing, 
the task scheduler will be invoked. Because Exec uses preemptive task scheduling, it can 
be said that the interrupt subsystem is the heart of task multiplexing. If, for some rea- 


son, interrupts do not occur, a task might execute forever because it cannot be forced to 
relinquish the CPU. 


INTERRUPT PRIORITIES 


Interrupts are prioritized in hardware and software. The 68000 CPU priority at which 
an interrupt executes is determined strictly by hardware. In addition to this, the 
software imposes a finer level of pseudo-priorities on interrupts with the same CPU 
priority. These pseudo-priorities determine the order in which simultaneous interrupts 
of the same CPU priority are processed. Multiple interrupts with the same CPU priority 
but a different pseudo-priority will not interrupt one another. 


Table 5-1 summarizes all interrupts by priority. 


Interrupts 53 


Table 5-1: Interrupts by Priority 


4703 CPU Pseudo 

Name Priority Priority Purpose 

NMI 7 15 Nonmaskable 

INTEN 6 14 Special (Copper) 
EXTER 6 13 8520B, external level 6 
DSKSYNC 5 12 Disk byte 

RBF 5 11 Serial input 

AUD1 4 ' 10 Audio channel 1 
AUD3 4 9 Audio channel 3 
AUDO 4 8 Audio channel 0 
AUD2 4 7 Audio channel 2 

BLIT 3 6 Blitter done 

VERTB 3 5 Vertical blank 
COPER 3 4 Copper 

PORTS 2 3 8520A, external level 2 
TBE 1 2 Serial output 
DSKBLK 1 1 Disk block done 
SOFTINT 1 0 Software interrupts 


The 8520s {also called CIAs) are peripheral interface adapter chips. For more informa- 
tion about them, see Amiga Hardware Reference Manual. 


As described in the Motorola 68000 programmer’s manual, interrupts may nest only in 
the direction of higher priority. Because of the time-critical nature of many interrupts 
on the Amiga, the CPU priority level must never be lowered by user or system code. 
When the system is running in user mode (multitasking), the CPU priority level must 
remain set at zero. When an interrupt occurs, the CPU priority is raised to the level 
appropriate for that interrupt. Lowering the CPU priority would permit unlimited 
interrupt recursion on the system stack and would “‘short-circuit”’ the interrupt-priority 
scheme. 


Because it is dangerous on the Amiga to hold off interrupts for any period of time, 
higher-level interrupt code must perform its business and exit promptly. If it is neces- 
sary to perform a time-consuming operation as the result of a high-priority interrupt, the 
operation should be deferred either by posting a software interrupt or by signalling a 
task. In this way, interrupt response time is kept to a minimum. Software interrupts 
are described in a later section. 


54 Interrupts 


NONMASKABLE INTERRUPT 


The 68000 provides a nonmaskable interrupt (NMI) of CPU priority 7. Although this 
interrupt cannot be generated by the Amiga hardware itself, it can be generated on the 
expansion bus by external hardware. Because this interrupt does not pass through the 
4703 interrupt controller circuitry, it is capable of violating system code critical sections. 
In particular, it short-circuits the DISABLE mutual-exclusion mechanism. Code that 
uses NMI must not assume that it can access system data structures. 


Servicing Interrupts 


Interrupts are serviced on the Amiga through the use of interrupt handlers and servers. 
An interrupt handler is a system routine that exclusively handles all processing related 
to a particular 4703 interrupt. An interrupt server is one of possibly many system rou- 
tines that are invoked as the result of a single 4703 interrupt. Interrupt servers provide 
a means of interrupt sharing. This concept is useful for general-purpose interrupts. such 
as vertical blanking. 


At system start, Exec designates certain 4703 interrupts as handlers and others as server 
chains. The PORTS, COPER, VERTB, BLIT, EXTER, and NMI interrupts are initial- 
ized as server chains; hence, each of these may execute multiple interrupt routines per 
each interrupt. All other interrupts are designated as handlers and are always used 
exclusively. 


DATA STRUCTURE 


Interrupt handlers and servers are defined by the Exec Interrupt structure. This struc- 
ture specifies an interrupt routine entry point and data pointer. The C definition of this 
structure is as follows: 


struct Interrupt { 
struct Node is_Node; 
APTR is_Data; 
VOID (*is_Code)(); 
}5 


Once this structure has been properly initialized, it can be used for either a handler or a 
server. 


Interrupts 55 


ENVIRONMENT 


Interrupts execute in an environment different from that of tasks. All interrupts execute 
in supervisor mode and utilize a single system stack. This stack is large enough to han- 
dle extreme cases of nested interrupts (of higher priorities). Obviously, interrupt pro- 
cessing has no effect on task stack usage. 


All interrupt processing code, both handlers and servers, is invoked as assembly code 
subroutines. Normal assembly code CPU register conventions dictate that the DO, D1, 
AO, and Al registers be free for scratch use. In the case of an interrupt handler, some of 
these registers also contain data that may be useful to the handler code. See the section 
on handlers below. 


Because interrupt processing executes outside the context of most system activities, cer- 
tain data structures will not be self-consistent and must be considered off limits for all 
practical purposes. This happens because certain system operations are not atomic in 
nature and may be interrupted only after executing part of an important instruction 
sequence. For example, memory allocation and deallocation routines forbid task switch- 
ing but do not disable interrupts. This results in the finite possibility of interrupting a 
memory-related routine. In such a case, a memory linked list may be inconsistent when 
examined from the interrupt code itself. To avoid serious problems, the interrupt rou- 
tine must not use any of the memory allocation or deallocation functions. 


INTERRUPT HANDLERS 


As described above, an interrupt handler is a system routine that exclusively handles all 
processing related to a particular 4703 interrupt. There can only be one handler per 
4703 interrupt. Every interrupt handler consists of an Interrupt structure (as defined 
above) and a single assembly code routine. Optionally, a data structure pointer may 
also be provided. This is particularly useful for ROM-resident interrupt code. 


An interrupt handler is passed control as if it were a subroutine of Exec. Once the 
handler has finished its business, it must return to Exec by executing an RTS (return 
from subroutine) instruction rather than an RTE (return from exception) instruction. 
Interrupt handlers should be kept very short to minimize service-time overhead and thus 
minimize the possibilities of interrupt overruns. As described above, an interrupt 
handler has the normal scratch registers at its disposal. In addition, AS and A6 are free 
for use. These registers are saved by Exec as part of the interrupt initiation cycle. 


For the sake of efficiency, Exec passes certain register parameters to the handler (see the 


list below). These register values may be utilized to trim a few microseconds off the exe- 
cution time of a handler. 


56 Interrupts 


DO 


D1 


AO 


Al 


A5 


A6 


is scratch and contains garbage. 


is scratch but contains the 4703 INTENAR and INTREQR registers values 
ANDed together. This results in an indication of which interrupts are enabled 
and active. 


points to the base address‘of the Amiga custom chips. This information is use- 
ful for performing indexed instruction access to the chip registers. 


points to the data area specified by the is_Data field of the Interrupt struc- 
ture. Because this pointer is always fetched (regardless of whether you use it), 
it is to your advantage to make some use of it. 


is used as a vector to your interrupt code. It is free to be used as a scratch 
register, and it is not necessary to restore its value prior to returning. 


points to the Exec library base (SysBase). You may use this register to call 
Exec functions or set it up as a base register to access your own library or dev- 
ice. It is not necessary to restore this register prior to returning. 


Interrupt handlers are established by passing the Exec function SetIntVector() your 
initialized Interrupt structure and the 4703 interrupt bit number of interest. The 
parameters for this function are as follows: 


INTB_RBF 


This is the bit number for which this interrupt server is to respond. Other pos- 
sible bits for interrupts are defined in hardware/intbits.h. 


RBF Interrupt 


This is the address of an interrupt server node as described earlier in this 
chapter. 


Keep in mind that certain interrupts are established as server chains and should not be 
accessed as handlers. 


Here is a C code example of proper handler initialization and set-up: 


Interrupts 57 


#include ”exec/types.h” 
#include ”exec/memory.h” 
#include ”exec/interrupts.h” 
#include ”hardware/custom.h” 
#include ”hardware/intbits.h” 


extern void RBFHandler(); 

extern struct Interrupt *SetIntVector(); 

extern struct Custom custom; /* get base of custom chips */ 
struct Interrupt *RBFInterrupt, *PriorInterrupt; 


/* To try this, user must have a 9600 baud terminal connected to serial 
* port and run this from a newcli window and must have a separate 

* way to view buffer contents as characters arrive. The Wait(0) is 

* used merely to make this a runnable example demonstrating setting 

* the vector. If the setup routine ever exits, various pointers 

-* become invalid (Buffer, In_Name) and there is no checking for 

*« buffer overflow included either. */ 


main() 
setup(); 


setup() 


short *Buffer; 
/* allocate an Interrupt node structure: */ 


RBF interrupt = (struct Interrupt *) 
AllocMem (sizeof(struct Interrupt), MEMF_PUBLIC); 
if (RBF Interrupt == 0) { 
printf ("not enough memory for interrupt handler”); 
exit (100); 


/* allocate an input buffer: */ 

Buffer = (short *)AllocMem (512, MEMF_PUBLIC); 

if (Buffer == 0) { 
FreeMem (RBF Interrupt, sizeof(struct Interrupt)); 
printf ("not enough memory for data buffer”); 
exit (100); 


printf(” Address of buffer is: %lx\n”, Buffer); 


/* initialize the Interrupt node: */ 


58 Interrupts 


RBFinterrupt->is_Node.In_Type = NT_LINTERRUPT; 
RBFInterrupt->is_Node.In_Pri = 0; 
RBFinterrupt->is_Node.In_Name = ”RBF-example’; 
RBFlinterrupt->is_Data = (APTR)&Buffer; 
RBFIinterrupt->is_Code = RBFHandler; 


/* enable the RBF interrupt if not already enabled */ 
custom.intena = INTF_SETCLR | INTF_RBF; 


/* put the new interrupt handler into action: * / 
PriorInterrupt = SetIntVector (INTB_RBF, RBF Interrupt); 


if (PriorInterrupt != 0) { 
printf ("we just replaced the %s interrupt handler”, 
PriorInterrupt->is_Node.lIn_Name); 


Wait(0); /* wait forever, ("illustrative example only”... if it exits, 
* pointer to Buffer and In_Name will become invalid) */ 
} 


In this example, note the correct initialization of the Node structure. 


The external interrupt handler code used above, RBF Handler, grabs the input charac- 
ter from the serial port and stores it into the buffer. Notice that the address of the 
buffer is passed to the handler (shown below) via the is_Data pointer. This pointer is 
updated for every character stored. 


XDEF _RBFHandler 

_RBF Handler: 
MOVE.L (A1),A5 sset buffer pointer 
MOVE.W SERDATR(AO),(A5)+ sstore the input word 
MOVE.W #INTF_RBF,INTREQ(AO) sclear the interrupt 
MOVE.L  A5,(A1) srestore new buffer pointer 
RTS sreturn to exec 
END 


In this example, the buffer holds complete 4703 serial data words that contain not only 
the input character, but special serial input flags as well (for example, data overrun). 
This data word is deposited directly into the buffer, and the 4703 RBF interrupt request 
is cleared. A more sophisticated example might perform various tests on the input word 
prior to storing it into the buffer. 


Interrupts 59 


INTERRUPT SERVERS 


As mentioned above, an interrupt server is one of possibly many system interrupt rou- 
tines that are invoked as the result of a single 4703 interrupt. Interrupt servers provide 
an essential mechanism for interrupt sharing. 


Interrupt servers must be used for PORTS, COPER, VERTB, BLIT, EXTER, or NMI 
interrupts. For these interrupts, all servers are linked together in a chain. Every server 
in the chain will be called until one returns with the Z bit of the 68000’s condition code 
register clear (indicating a non-zero result). If the interrupt was specifically for your 
server, you should return to Exec with the Z bit of the condition codes clear so that the 
whole chain does not have to be searched to find the interrupt. Note that VERTB 
servers (that is, servers that are bound to vertical blank) should always return with the 
Z bit set. Note that this is different from the normal calling convention (with the result 
in DO) to save time during time-critical] interrupts. 


The easiest way to set the condition code register is to do an immediate move to the DO 
register as follows: 


InterruptNotProcessed: 
MOVEQ #0,D0 
RTS 


InterruptProcessed: 
MOVEQ #1,D0 
RTS 


The same Exec Interrupt structure used for handlers is also used for servers. Also, like 
interrupt handlers, servers must terminate their code with an RTS instruction. 


Interrupt servers are called in priority order. The priority of a server is specified in its 
is_Node.In_Pri field. Higher-priority servers are called earlier than lower-priority 
servers. Adding and removing interrupt servers from a particular chain is accomplished 
with the Exec AddIntServer() and RemIntServer() functions. These functions 
require you to specify both the 4703 interrupt number and a properly initialized 
Interrupt structure. 


Servers have different register values passed than handlers do. A server cannot count on 


the DO, D1, or A6 registers containing any useful information. A server is free to use 
DO-D1 and AO-A1/A5 as scratch. 


60 Interrupts 


In a server chain, the interrupt is cleared automatically by the system. Having a server 
clear its interrupt is not recommended and not necessary (clearing could cause the loss of 


an interrupt on PORTS or EXTER). 


Here is an example of a program to set up and clean up a low-priority vertical blank 
interrupt server: 


/* vertb.c */ 

#include ”exec/types.h” 
#include ”exec/memory.h” 
#include ”exec/interrupts.h” 
#include ”hardware/custom.h” 
#include ”hardware/intbits.h” 


struct Interrupt *VertBIntr; 
long count; 
/* To try this program, save as “‘vertb,”? then type “‘vertb” to run it. 
* If you type “run vertb,” the program won’t be connected to a CLI and 
* it will not be possible to send “q’’ to it to stop the program. 
* Compiling info: lc2 -v (disable stack checking so no need to use Ic.lib) 
* Linking info: Astartup.obj, vertb.c, vb.obj, amiga.lib 
* 
main() 


extern void VertBServer(); 


/* allocate an Interrupt node structure: */ 
VertBintr = (struct Interrupt *) 
AllocMem (sizeof(struct Interrupt), MEMF_PUBLIC); 
if (VertBIntr == 0) { 
printf ("not enough memory for interrupt server” ); 
exit (100); 


/* initialize the Interrupt node: */ 
VertBintr->is_Node.In_Type = NT_LINTERRUPT; 
VertBlIntr->is_Node.lIn_Pri = -60; 
VertBIntr->is_Node.In_Name = ”VertB-example’; 
VertBintr->is_Data = (APTR)&count; 
VertBlintr->is_Code = VertBServer; 


/* put the new interrupt server into action: */ 


AddIntServer (INTB_VERTB, VertBlIntr); 
printf(” Type q to quit... reports how many vblanks since start\n”); 


Interrupts 61 


while (getchar () !=’q’); /* wait for user to type ’q’ */ 


RemIntServer (INTB_VERTB, VertBiIntr); 
printf (”%ld vertical blanks occurred\n”, count); 
FreeMem (VertBiIntr, sizeof(struct Interrupt)); 


} 


The VertBServer might look something like this: 


XDEF _VertBServer 


_VertBServer: 
MOVE.L A1,A0 ___ sget address of count 
ADDQ.L #1,(A0) ;increment value of count 
MOVEQ.L +#0,D0 _ ;continue to process other vb-servers 
RTS 
END 


Software Interrupts 


Exec provides a means of generating software interrupts. This type of interrupt is useful 
for creating special-purpose asynchronous system contexts. Software interrupts execute 
at a priority higher than that of tasks but lower than that of hardware interrupts, so 
they are often used to defer hardware interrupt processing to a lower priority. Software 
interrupts use the same Interrupt data structure as hardware interrupts. As described 
above, this structure contains pointers to both interrupt code and data. 


A software interrupt is usually activated with the Cause() function. If this function is 
called from a task, the task will be interrupted and the software interrupt will occur. If 
it is called from a hardware interrupt, the software interrupt will not be processed until 
the system exits from its last hardware interrupt. If a software interrupt occurs from 
within another software interrupt, it is not processed until the current one is completed. 


Software interrupts are prioritized. Unlike interrupt servers, software interrupts have 
only five priority levels: -32, -16, 0, +16, and +32. The priority should be put into the 
In_Pri field prior to calling Cause(). 


Software interrupts can also be caused by message port arrival actions. See the “Mes- 
sages and Ports” chapter. 


62 Interrupts 


Disabling Interrupts 


As mentioned in the “‘Tasks” chapter, it is sometimes necessary to disable all interrupts 
when examining or modifying certain shared system data structures. Interrupt disabling 
is controlled with the DISABLE and ENABLE macros and the Disable() and 
Enable() C functions. 


In some system code, there are nested disabled sections. This type of code requires that 
interrupts be disabled with the first DISABLE and not re-enabled until the last 
ENABLE. The system enable/disable macros and functions are designed to permit this 
sort of nesting. For example, if there is a section of system code that should not be 
interrupted, the DISABLE macro is used at the head and the ENABLE macro is used 
at the end. 


Here is an assembly-code macro definition for DISABLE. This routine assumes that A6 
holds a pointer to the base of the Exec library. 


DISABLE MACRO 
MOVE.W #$4000,_intena 
ADDQ.B #1,IDNestCnt(A6) 
ENDM 


DISABLE increments a counter, IDNestCnt, that keeps track of how many levels of 
disable have been issued up to now. Only 126 levels of nesting are permitted. Notice 
that interrupts are disabled before the [DNestCnt variable is incremented. 


Similarly, the ENABLE macro will reenable macros if the last disable level has just 
been exited: 


ENABLE MACRO 
SUBQ.B #.1,IDNestCnt(A6) 
BGE.S ENABLE@ 
MOVE.W #$C000,_intena 
ENABLE®Q: 
MEND 


ENABLE decrements the same counter that DISABLE increments. Notice that 
interrupts are enabled after the IDNestCnt variable is decremented. 


See the “Tasks” chapter for a better explanation of mutual exclusion using interrupt 
disabling. 


Interrupts 63 


Chapter 6 


MEMORY ALLOCATION 


Introduction 


Areas of free memory are maintained as a special linked list of free regions. Each 
memory allocation function returns the starting address of a block of memory at least as 
large as the size that you requested to be allocated. Any memory that is linked into this 
system free list can be allocated by the memory allocation routines. The allocated 
memory is not tagged or initialized in any way unless you have specified, for example, 


Memory Allocation 65 


MEMF_CLEAR. Only the free memory area is tagged to reflect the size of the chunk 
that has been freed. 


You should return allocated memory to the system when your task completes. As noted 
above, the system only keeps track of available system memory and has no idea which 
task may have allocated memory and not returned it to the system free list. If your pro- 
gram does not return allocated memory when its task exits, that memory is unavailable 
until the system is powered down or reset. This can be critical, especially when using 
graphics routines that often need large blocks of contiguous RAM space. Therefore, if 
you dynamically allocate RAM, make sure to return it to the system by using the 
FreeMem() or FreeEntry() routines described below. 


When you ask for memory to be allocated, the system always allocates blocks of memory 
in even multiples of eight bytes. If you request more or less than eight bytes, your 
request is always rounded up to the nearest multiple of eight. In addition, the address 
at which the memory deallocation is made is always rounded down to the nearest even 
multiple of eight bytes. 


Compatibility Note: Do not depend on this size! Future revisions of the system may 
require a different size to guarantee alignment of the requested area to a specific boun- 
dary. You can depend upon allocation being aligned to at least a longword boundary. 


Using Memory Allocation Routines 


Note: Do not attempt to allocate or deallocate system memory from within interrupt 
code. The “Interrupts” chapter explains that an interrupt may occur at any time, even 
during a memory allocation process. As a result, system data structures may not neces- 
sarily be internally consistent. 


MEMORY REQUIREMENTS 


You must tell the system about your memory requirements when requesting a chunk of 
memory. There are four memory requirement possibilities. Three of these tell where 
within the hardware address map memory is to be allocated. The fourth, 
MEMF_CLEAR, tells the allocator that this memory space is to be zeroed before the 
allocator returns the starting address of that space. 


66 Memory Allocation 


The memory requirements that you can specify are listed below: 


MEMF_CHIP 
This indicates a memory block that is within the range that the special- 
purpose chips can access. As of this writing, this is the lowest 512K of the 
Amiga. 


MEMF_FAST 
This indicates a memory block that is outside of the range that the special 
purpose chips can access. “FAST” means that the special-purpose chips 
cannot cause processor bus contention and therefore processor access will 


likely be faster. The special-purpose chips cannot use memory allocated in 
this way. 


MEMF_PUBLIC 
This indicates that the memory requested is to be used for different tasks 
or interrupt code, such as task control blocks; messages, ports, and so on. 
The designation MEMF_PUBLIC should be used to assure compatibility 
with future versions of the system. 


MEMF_CLEAR 
This indicates that memory is to be cleared before returning. 


If no preferences are specified, MEMF_FAST is assumed first, then MEMF_CHIP. 


MEMORY HANDLING ROUTINES 


Exec has the following memory allocation routines: 


AllocMem() and FreeMem() 


These are system-wide memory allocation and deallocation routines. They use a 
memory free-list owned and managed by the system. 


AllocEntry() and FreeEntry() 
These are routines for allocating and freeing different-size and different-type 
memory blocks with a single call. 

Allocate() and Deallocate() 


These are routines that may be used within a user-task to locally manage a 
system-allocated memory block. You use these routines to manage memory 
yourself, using your own memory free lists. 


Memory Allocation 67 


SAMPLE CALLS FOR ALLOCATING SYSTEM MEMORY 
The following examples show how to allocate memory. 


APTR mypointer,anotherptr; 
my pointer = (APTR)AllocMem(100, 0); 


AllocMem() returns the address of the first byte of a memory block that is at least 100 
bytes in size or null if there is not that much free memory. Because the requirement 
field is specified as 0, memory will be allocated from any one of the system-managed 
memory regions. 


anotherptr = (APTR)AllocMem(1000,MEMF_CHIP | MEMF_CLEAR); 


Memory is allocated only out of chip-accessible memory; zeroes are filled into memory 
space before the address is returned. If the system free-list does not contain enough con- 
tiguous memory bytes in an area matching your requirements and of the size you have 
requested, AllocMem() or Allocate() returns a zero. 


SAMPLE FUNCTION CALLS FOR FREEING SYSTEM MEMORY 


The following examples free the memory chunks shown in the earlier call to the system. 
allocation routines. 


FreeMem(mypointer,100); 
FreeMem(anotherptr,1000); 


Note: Because of the internal operations of the allocator, your allocation request may 
result in an allocation larger than the number of bytes you requested in the first place. 
However, the FreeMem() routine adjusts the request to free memory in the same way 
as AllocMem() adjusts the size, thereby maintaining a consistent memory free-list. 


The routine FreeMem() returns no status. However, if you attempt to free a memory 


block in the middle of a chunk that the system believes is already free, you will cause a 
system crash. 


68 Memory Allocation 


ALLOCATING MULTIPLE MEMORY BLOCKS 


Exec provides the routines AllocEntry() and FreeEntry() to allocate multiple memory 
blocks in a single call. AllocEntry() accepts a data structure called a MemList, which 
contains the information about the size of the memory blocks to be allocated and the 
requirements, if any, that you have regarding the allocation. The MemList structure is 
found in the include file exrec/memory.h and is defined as follows: 


struct MemList { 


struct Node ml_Node; 
UWORD ml_NumEntries; /* number of MemEntrys */ 
struct MemEntry ml_me[1]; /*where the MemEntrys begin*/ 
}3 
where: 
Node 


allows you to link together multiple MemLists. However, the node is ignored 
by the routines AllocEntry() and FreeEntry(). 


ml_NumEntries 
tells the system how many MemEntry sets are contained in this MemList. 
Notice that a MemList is a variable-length structure and can contain as many 
sets of entries as you wish. 


The MemEntry structure looks like this: 


struct MemEntry { 


union { 
ULONG meu_Regqs;/* the AllocMem requirements */ 
APTR meu_Addr;/* address of your memory */ 
}me_Un; 


ULONG me_Length; /* the size of this request */ 


}s 


#:define me_Reqs me_Un.meu_Reqs 
#-define me_Addr me_Un.meu_Addr 


Memory Allocation 69 


Sample Code for Allocating Multiple Memory Blocks 


#include ”exec/types.h” 
#include ”exec/memory.h” 


struct MemList *mymemlist; /* pointer to a MemList */ 
/* define new structure because C cannot initialize unions */ 
struct myneeds { 


struct MemList mn_head; /* one entry in the header */ 
struct MemEntry mn_body/{3}; /* additional entries follow 


* directly as part of 
* same data structure */ 
} myneeds; 


myneeds.mn_head.ml_NumEntries = 3; 
myneeds.mn_body([0].me_Reqs = MEMF_PUBLIC; 
myneeds.mn_body(0].me_Length = 104; 
myneeds.mn_body[1].me_Reqs=MEMF_FAST|MEMF_CLEAR; 
myneeds.mn_body[1].me_Length = 8000; 
myneeds.mn_body([2].me_Reqs=MEMF_CHIP | MEMF_CLEAR; 
myneeds.mn_body([2].me_Length = 256; 


mymemlist = (struct MemList*)AllocEntry( &myneeds ); 


/* saying "struct MemEntry mn_body{3]” is simply 
* a way of adding extra MemEntry structures 

* contiguously at the end of the first such 

* structure at the end of the MemList. Thus 

* members of the MemList of type MemEntry can 
* be referenced in C as additional members of 

* the ”me| ]” data structure. 


a 


AllocEntry() returns a pointer to a new MemList of the same size as the MemList 
that you passed to it. For example, ROM code can provide a MemList containing the 
requirements of a task and create a RAM-resident copy of the list containing the 
addresses of the allocated entries. 


70 Memory Allocation 


Result of Allocating Multiple Memory Blocks 


The MemList created by AllocEntry() contains MemEntry entries. MemEntrys 
are defined by a union statement, which allows one memory space to be defined in more 
than one way. 


If AllocEntry() returns a value with bit 31 clear, then all of the meu_Addr positions 
in the returned MemList will contain valid memory addresses meeting the requirements 
you have provided. 


To use this memory area, you would use code similar to the following: 


struct MemList *ml; 
APTR  mydata, moredata; 


; (((ml & (1<<31)) < 0) 


mydata = ml->ml_me[0].me_Addr; 
moremydata = ml->ml_me[1].me_Addr; 


} 
else 


exit (200); /* error during AllocEntry */ 


If AllocEntry() has problems while trying to allocate the memory you have requested, 
instead of the address of a new MemList, it will return the memory requirements value 
with which it had the problem. Bit 31 of the value returned will be set, and no memory 
will be allocated. Entries in the list that were already allocated will be freed. 


Memory Allocation and Tasks 


If you want your task to cooperate fully with Exec, use the MemList and AllocEntry() 
facility to do your dynamic memory allocation. 


In the task control block structure, there is a list header named tc_MemEntry. This is 
the list header that you initialize to point to the MemLists that your task has created 
by call(s) to AllocEntry(). Here is a short program segment that handles task memory 
list header initialization only. It assumes that you have already run AllocEntry() as 
shown in the simple AllocEntry() example above. 


Memory Allocation 71 


struct Task *tc; 
struct MemList *ml]; 
NewList( tc->.tc_MemEntry ); /* Initialize the task’s 
* memory list header */ 


AddTail( tc->.tec_MemEntry, ml ); 


Assuming that you have only used the AllocEntry() method (or AllocMem() and built 
your own custom MemList), your task now knows where to find the blocks of memory 
that your task has dynamically allocated. If your clean-up routine (the task’s finalPC 
routine) finds items on the tc_MemEntry list when RemTask( &mytask ) is exe- 
cuted, your routine can wind through all linked lists of MemLists and return all allo- 
cated memory to the system free-list. 


MEMORY ALLOCATION AND MULTITASKING 


To make sure that you are working effectively in the multitasking system as a cooperat- 
ing task, you can do one of the following: 


o Globally allocate and free memory blocks by using AllocMem() and 
FreeMem(), adding each block when allocated and deleting each when it is 
freed. 


o Allocate one or more blocks of memory from the system global pool using 
AllocEntry() when your task begins and then manage those blocks internally 
using Allocate() and Deallocate(). 


MANAGING MEMORY WITH ALLOCATE() AND DEALLOCATE() 


Allocate() and Deallocate() use a memory region header, called MemHeader, as part 
of the calling sequence. You can build your own local header to manage memory locally. 
This structure takes the form: 


72 Memory Allocation 


struct MemHeader { 
UWORD mh_Attributes; /* characteristics * / 
struct MemChunk *«mb_First;/* first free region */ 
APTR  mbh_Lower; /* lower memory bounds */ 
APTR mh_Upper; /* upper memory bounds + 1 */ 
ULONG mb_Free; /* number of free bytes */ 


}3 
where 


mh_Attributes 
is ignored by Allocate() and Deallocate(). 


mh_First 
is the pointer to the first MemChunk structure. 


mh_Lower 
is the lowest address within the memory block. This must be a multiple of eight 
bytes. 


mh_Upper 
is the highest address within the memory block + 1. The highest address will 
itself be a multiple of eight if the block was allocated to you by AllocMem(). 


mh_Free 
is the total free space. 


This structure is included in the include-files exec/memory.h and ezec/memory.t. 
The following sample program fragment shows the correct initialization of a 


MemHeader structure. It assumes that you wish to allocate a block of memory from 
the global pool and thereafter manage it yourself using Allocate() and Deallocate(). 


Memory Allocation 73 


struct MemHeader memheader; 
APTR myblock; 


struct MemChunk { 
struct MemChunk *mc_Next; 
ULONG mc_bytes; 


}3 
struct MemChunk *me; 


/* get a block from the system */ 
myblock = (APTR) AllocMem( 8000, MEMF_PUBLIC | MEMF_CLEAR ); 


memheader.mh_Lower = myblock; 
memheader.mh_First == (ULONG) myblock; 
memheader.mh_Upper == (ULONG)myblock + 8000; 


/* takes 8 bytes for the memory chunk headers that tag free memory */ 
memheader.mh_Free = 8000 - (sizeof (struct MemChunk) ); 


/* initialize the free memory list */ 
mc = (struct MemChunk *) myblock; 
me->mc_Next = NULL; 
me->me_Size = memheader.mh_F ree; 


/* now mymemhead is ready to use with 
* calls to Allocate( &memheader, size ); 
* or Deallocate( &memheader, size ); */ 


Note that only free memory is “tagged” using a MemChunk linked list. Once memory 
is allocated, the system has no way of determining which task now has control of that 
memory. 


If you allocate a large chunk from the system, you can assure that in your finalPC rou- 
tine (specified when you perform AddTask()) you deallocate this large chunk as your 
task exits. Thus, local memory allocation and deallocation from a single large block can 
perhaps save some bookkeeping—that which might have been required if you had exten- 
sively used AllocMem() and FreeMem() instead. This can most easily be done by 
recording the allocated block in your task’s te_MemEntry structure. 


74 Memory Allocation 


Chapter 7 


LIBRARIES 


Using a properly designed machine code interface, it is possible to call any of the system 
routines without knowing in advance its absolute location in the system. This chapter 
shows how libraries are designed and used but does not cover the internal library struc- 
ture. For more information, see the “Library Base Offsets” appendix. 


Libraries 75 


What Is a Library? 


A library is a collection of jump instructions, a system library node, and a data segment. 
System library conventions require that each code vector occupy six bytes. The size and 
content of a library node is specified below in the topic titled “Structure of a Library 
Node.” The size of the data segment varies, depending on the needs of the library itself. 


How To Access a Library 


You must perform two steps to access a library that is already initialized. First, you 
must open the library. Second, you must access the jump instructions or data by speci- 
fying an offset (negative or positive) from the library base pointer returned by 
OpenLibrary(). This form of indirection allows you to develop code that is not depen- 
dent on the absolute locations of the system routines. Note that in the same release of 
an Exec kernel, it is possible that routines can have different addresses. This depends, 
for example, on whether the hardware options are different or if the user asks for a 
different configuration. Therefore, accessing the system routines through library calls is 
the most expedient way of assuring that your code will work on different machines. 


OPENING A LIBRARY 


You prepare a library for use by calling the routine OpenLibrary(). This call takes the 
form 


LibPtr = OpenLibrary(LibName, Version) 


DO Al DO 
where 
LibPtr 
is a pointer value that is nonzero if the requested library has been located. Be 
sure to check that the returned value is nonzero before attempting to use 
LibPtr. If it is zero, the open failed. 
LibName 


is a pointer to a string variable (null-terminated) that contains the name of the 
library that you wish to open. 


76 Libraries 


Version 
is the version number of the library that you expect to use. Libraries of the 
same name will be compatible with previous versions. However, if you specify a 
newer version than is present, the open will fail. Use the value 0 if you simply 
want “‘any” version of the named library. 


The routine OpenLibrary() causes the system to search for a library of that name 
within the system library list. If such an entry is found, the library’s open-entry routine 
is called. If the library is not currently RAM-resident, AmigaDOS will search the direc- 
tory currently assigned to LIBS:. If that library is present, it will be loaded, initialized, 
and added to the system library list. If the library allows you access, the library pointer 
will be returned in LibPtr. 


USING A LIBRARY TO CALL A ROUTINE 


A typical way to use the library interface once a library has been opened is to use assem- 
bly language code as follows. Note that this save/restore is necessary only if A6 does 
not already contain the correct value. 


move.l A6,-(SP) ssave current contents of A6 
move.l <libptr>,A6 smove library pointer into A6 
jsr _LVO<routineName>(A8) sthrough library vector table 
move.l (SP)+,A6 srestore A6 to original value 


The example above is the actual assembly code generated by the use of a machine 
language macro named LINICLIB: 


LINKLIB functionOffset, libraryBase 
where 


functionOffset 
is “_LVO” followed by the name of the routine as called from C. 


libraryBase 
is the address of the base of the library. 


For example, 


LINKLIB _LVODisplayBeep,IntuitionBase 


Libraries 77 


produces the same code sequence as shown above. This macro is located in the file 
exec/libraries.k. Notice that it handles only the linkage to the routine. It does not save 
any registers or preload any registers for passing values to the routine. Negative offsets, 
in multiples of six bytes, access the code vectors within the library. 


By convention, A6 must contain the library pointer when a library routine is called. 
This allows any library routine to locate the library and access its data or any of its 
other entry points. Registers AO, Al, DO, and D1 may be used as scratch registers by 
any routine. All other registers, both address and data, if used in a routine, should be 
saved and restored before exit. 


USING A LIBRARY TO REFERENCE DATA 


You can use the LibPtr to reference a data segment associated with a library by speci- 
fying a positive offset from LibPtr, such as: 


movel <libptr>,Al 3; Move library base 
move. <offset>(A1),D0_ ; Retrieve data located at <offset> 


Library data is not usually accessed directly from outside of a library, but rather is 
accessed by the routines that are part of the library itself. The sample code retrieves 
data specifically associated with that library. Note that different languages have 
different interface requirements. This example shows only a typical assembly language 
interface. When you design your own libraries, you may decide how the associated data 
segment is to be used. The system itself places no restrictions on its use. 


CACHING LIBRARY POINTERS 


To make your library calls more efficient, you may cache various pointers if you wish. 
These pointers are are the libPtr itself (because the library node, while it is open, may 
not be moved) and the address within the library at which a jump instruction is located 
(because offsets from the libPtr do not change). You should not, however, cache the 
jump vector from within the library. You will always expect to be calling the current 
library routine and therefore should not cache the jump vector. 


78 Libraries 


CLOSING A LIBRARY 


When your task has finished using a specific library, your program should call the rou- 
tine CloseLibrary(). This call takes the form: 


CloseLibrary(libPtr) 
Al 


where libPtr is the value returned to you by the call to OpenLibrary/(). 


You close a library to tell the library manager that there is one fewer task currently 
using that library. If there are no tasks using a library, it is possible for the system, on 
request, to purge that library and free up the memory resources it is currently using. 
Each successful open should be matched by exactly one close. Do not attempt to use a 
library pointer after you have closed that library. 


Adding a Library 


You can add your own library to the system library list, provided that it is constructed 
as indicated below. You add a library to the system by using the AddLibrary() func- 
tion. The format of the call to this function is as follows: 


AddLibrary(libPtr) 
Al 


This command links a new library to the system and makes it available to all tasks. 


MAKING A NEW LIBRARY 


A function called MakeLibrary() is a convenient way for you to construct a library. 
After running MakeLibrary(), you will normally add that library to the system library 
list. 


libAddr = MakeLibrary(vectors, structure, init, dataSize, SegList) 
DO AO Al A2 D0 D1 
AddLibrary(libAddr) 
Al 


Libraries 79 


MakeLibrary() allocates space for the code vectors and data area, initializes the library 
node, and initializes the data area according to your specifications. Its parameters have 
the following meanings: 


vectors 
This is a pointer to a table of code pointers terminated with a-1. vectors must 
specify a valid table address. 


structure 
This parameter points to the base of an InitStruct() data region. That is, it 
points to the first location within a table that the InitStruct() routine can use 
to initialize various memory areas. InitStruct() will typically be used to initial- 
ize the data segment of the library, perhaps forming data tables, task control 
blocks, I/O control blocks, etc. If this entry is a 0, then InitStruct() is not 
called. 

init 
This parameter points to a routine that is to be executed after the library node 
has been allocated and the code and data areas have been initialized. When this 
routine is called, the libAddr (address of this library) is placed into data regis- 
ter DO. If init is zero, no init routine is called. 


dataSize 
This variable specifies the size of the data area to be reserved for the library. It 
includes the standard library node data as well as the reserved data area itself. 


SegList 
This is a pointer to the AmigaDOS memory segment list (for libraries loaded by 
DOS). 


MINIMUM SUBSET OF LIBRARY CODE VECTORS 


The code vectors of a library must include at least the following entries: OPEN, 
CLOSE, EXPUNGE, and one reserved entry. 


OPEN is the entry point called when you use the command OpenLibrary(). 
In the system libraries, OPEN increments the library variable OpenCnt. 
This variable is also used by CLOSE and EXPUNGE. 


CLOSE is the entry point called when you use the command CloseLibrary(). It 
decrements the library variable OpenCnt and may do a delayed 
EXPUNGE. 


80 Libraries 


EXPUNGE 


prepares the library for removal from the system. This often includes 
deallocating memory resources that were reserved during initialization. 
EXPUNGE not only frees the memory allocated for data structures, but 
also the areas reserved for the library node itself. 


The remaining vector is reserved for future use. It should always return zero. 


STRUCTURE OF A LIBRARY NODE 


A library node contains all of the information that the system needs to manage a library. 
Here is the library structure as it appears in the ezec/libraries.h include file: 


struct Library { 

struct 
UBYTE 
UBYTE 
UWORD 
UWORD 
UWORD 
UWORD 
APTR 
ULONG 
UWORD 


}3 


Node libNode; 
lib_F lags; 
lib_pad; 
lib_NegSize; 
lib_PosSize; 
lib_ Version; 
lib_Revision; 
lib_IdString; 
lib_Sum; 
lib_Open_Cnt; 


#define LIBF_SUMMING (1 << 0) 


#define LIBF_CHANGED (1 << 1) 


#define LIBF_SUMUSED (1 << 2) 


#define LIBF_DELEXP (1 << 3) 


/* link into the system library list */ 
/* flag variables */ 

/* unused */ 

/* size of jump vectors in bytes. */ 
/* data size */ 


/* checksum */ 
/* count how many tasks 
* have this library open */ 


/* meaning of the flag bits: */ 


/* bit position says some task 
* is currently running a 
* checksum on this library */ 


/* bit position says one or more entries 
* have been changed in the library 
* code vectors used by SumLibrary */ 


/* bit position says user wants a check- 
* sum fault to cause a system panic */ 


/* says there is a delayed expunge. 
* Some user has requested expunge but 
* another user still has the library open. */ 


Libraries 81 


CHANGING THE CONTENTS OF A LIBRARY 


After a library has been constructed and linked to the system library list, you can use 
the routine SetFunction() either to add or to replace the contents of one of the library 
vectors. The format of this routine is as follows: 


SetFunction( Library, FuncOffset, FuncEntry) 
Al AO DO 


where 


Library 
is a pointer to the library in which a function entry is to be changed. 


FuncOffset 
is the offset (negative) at which the entry to be changed is located. 


FuncEntry 
is a longword value that is the absolute address of the routine that is to be 
inserted at the selected position in the library code vectors. 


When you use SetFunction() to modify a function entry in a library, it automatically 
recalculates the checksum of the library. 


Relationship of Libraries to Devices 


A device is an interface specification and an internal data structure based on the library 
structure. The interface specification defines a means of device control. The structures 
of libraries and devices are so similar that the routine MakeLibrary() is used to con- 
struct both libraries and devices. Devices require the same basic four code vectors but 
have additional code vectors that must be located in specific positions in the code vector 
table. The functions that devices are expected to perform, at minimum, are shown in 
chapter 4, “Input/Output.” Also, a skeleton device (source code) is provided in the 
“Skeleton Device/Library Code” appendix of the Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: 
Devices and Librartes. 


82 Libraries 


Chapter 8 


ROM-WACK 


Introduction 


Wack is a keystroke-interactive bug exterminator used with Amiga hardware and 
software. ROM-Wack is a small, ROM-resident version primarily useful for system-crash 
data-structure examination. ROM-Wack’s command syntax and display formats are 
identical to Grand-Wack, of which it is functionally a subset. Grand-Wack includes 
both the ROM-resident and the remote versions of Wack. 


ROM-Wack 83 


Getting to Wack 


ROM-Wack will be invoked by Exec automatically upon a fatal system error, or it can 
be explicitly invoked through the Exec Debug() function. Once invoked, communica- 
tion is performed through the RS-232-C serial data port at 9600 baud. 


When a fatal system error occurs, Wack can be used to examine memory in an attempt 
to locate the source of the failure. The state of the machine will be frozen at the point 
in which the error occurred and Wack will not disturb the state of system beyond using 
a small amount of supervisor stack, memory between 200 and 400 hex, and the serial 
data port. 


A program may explicitly invoke Wack by calling the Exec Debug() function. This is 
useful during the debug phase of development for establishing program breakpoints. For 
future compatibility, Debug should be called with a single, null parameter—for exam- 
ple, Debug(0). Please note however, that calling the Debug() function does not neces- 
sarily invoke ROM-Wack. If Grand-Wack or a user supplied debugger has been 
installed, it will be invoked in place of ROM-Wack. 


When Wack is called from a program, system interrupts continue to process, but multi- 
tasking is disabled. Generally this is not harmful to the system. Your graphics will still 
display, keys may be typed, the mouse can be moved, and so on. However, many inter- 
rupts deposit raw data into bounded or circular buffers. These interrupts often signal 
related device tasks to further process these buffers. If too many interrupts occur, device 
buffers may begin to overflow or wrap around. You should limit the number of inter- 
rupt actions (typing keys on the Amiga keyboard for example) you perform while execut- 
ing in Wack. 


Finally, certain system failures are so serious that the system is forced to reboot. Before 
rebooting takes place, the power LED will flash slowly. If you type a Del character (hex 
7F) while the LED is flashing, the system will enter Wack before rebooting. 


Keystrokes, Numbers, and Symbols 


Wack performs a function upon every keyboard keystroke. In ROM-Wack, these func- 
tions are permanently bound to certain keys. For example, typing ‘““>” will immediately 
result in the execution of the next-word function. This type of operation gives a 
“‘keystroke-interactive” feel to most of the common Wack commands. 


84 ROM-Wack 


Whenever a key is pressed, it is mapped through a KeyMap, which translates it into an 
action. A key can have different meanings in different contexts. For simplicity, ROM- 
Wack applies keys consistently in all contexts (the Grand-Wack feature of arbitrary key 
binding is not available in ROM-Wack). 


In the default keymap, most punctuation marks are bound to simple actions, such as 
displaying a memory frame, moving the frame pointer, or altering a single word. These 
actions are always performed immediately. In contrast, the keys A-Z, a-z, and 0-9 are 
bound to a function that collects the keys as a string. When such a string is terminated 
with <RETURN>, the keys are interpreted as a single symbol or number. 


In ROM-Wack, symbols are treated only as intrinsic functions. Macros, constants, 
offsets, and bases are not supported. Hence, typing a symbol name will always result in 
the invocation of the symbol’s statically bound function. 


If a string of keys forms a number, that number is treated as a hexadecimal value. If a 
string of keys is neither a number nor a known symbol, the message ‘“‘unknown symbol” 
is presented. 


During the “collection” of a symbol or number string, typing a backspace deletes the 
previous character. Typing <CTRL-X> deletes the entire line. 


Register Frame 


When Wack is invoked for any reason, a register frame is displayed: 


ROM-Wack 

PC: FOOAB4 SR: 0000 USP: 001268 SSP: O7FFE8 TRAP: 0000 TASK: 0008B8 

DR: 00000001 00000004 0000000C O00000AB4 00000001 0000001C 00000914 00000914 
AR: 00000AB4 OOFO0D348 00011A80 O0000B8C O00OF20770 OOF20380 00000604 

SF: 0000 OOFO OAB4 0014 O0OFO OAB4 0014 OOFO OAB4 0004 OOF O OAB4 0000 0004 0000 


This frame displays the current processor state and system context from which you 
entered Wack. If you are familiar with the M68000 processor, most of this frame should 
be obvious: USP for user stack pointer, SSP for system stack pointer, etc. 


The TRAP field indicates the trap number that forced us into Wack. Motorola uses the 


term exceptions for these traps. In Exec, the term ezceptzon is used for asynchronous 
task events. The standard TRAP numbers are 


ROM-Wack 85 


QO normal entry 

2 bus error 

3 address error 

4 illegal instruction 

5 zero divide 

6 CHK instruction (should not happen) 

7 TRAPV instruction (should not happen) 

8 privilege violation 

9 trace (single step) 

A line 1010 emulator 

B line 1111 emulator 

2N trap instruction N (2F normally for breakpoint) 

The TASK field indicates the task from which the system entered Wack. If this field is 
zero, the system entered Wack from supervisor mode. 

The SF line provides a backtrace of the current stack frame. This is often useful for 
determining the current execution context (last function called, for example). The user 
stack is displayed for entry from a task; the system stack for entry from supervisor 


mode. (Note: Version 25.1 always shows the system stack, never the user stack. This 
will change.) 


Display Frames 


Wack displays memory in fixed size frames. A frame may vary in size from 0 to 64K 
bytes. Frames normally show addresses, word size hex data, and ASCII equivalent 
characters: 


86 ROM-Wack 


FO000C4 6578 6563 2E6C 6962 7261 7279 0000 4AFC exec.tlibrary... 
FOO00D4 OOFO 00D2 OOFO 2918 0019 0978 OOFO 00C4 ...........- ) "X.Y I x... 


By default, Wack will pack as much memory content as it can onto a single line. Some- 
times it is preferable to see more or less than this default frame size. The frame size 
may be modified with :n. Here ‘‘n” represents the number of bytes (rounded to the next 
unit size) that will be displayed. 


34 

Fo000C4 6578 6563 exec 

220 

F000C4 6578 6563 2E6C 6962 7261 7278 0000 4AFC exec.tlibrar sy... 
FOO00D4 OOFO O0O0D2 OOFO 2918 0019 0978 OOFO 00C4 ............ XV Lees 


A “:0” frame size is useful for altering the write-only custom chip registers. 


Relative Positioning 


Wack functions as a memory editor; nearly all commands are performed relative to your 
current position in memory. The following commands cause relative movement: 


forward a frame 


‘ backward a frame 
> forward a word 
< backward a word 


+n forward n bytes 
-n backward n bytes 


<RETURN> 
redisplay current frame 


<SPACE> 
forward a word 


ROM-Wack 87 


<BKSP> 
backward a word 


An example of the use of these commands is provided below: 


< RETURN > 
[00200 7072 6573 656e 7429 Od0a 0000 2028 6372 present )‘M’J... 


f00210 6173 6820 2d20 6361. BeBe 6f74 2072 6563 ash © cannot 
9 

£00200 7072 6573 656e 7429 Od0a 0000 2028 6372 present )’M’J... 

> 

{00202 6573 656e 7429 Od0a 0000 2028 6372 6173 es ent )*M’J.... ( 
< 

£00200 7072 6573 656e 7429 Od0a 0000 2028 6372 present )‘M J... 

+24 

£00224 290d 0a00 2028 626f 6f74 2064 6576 6963 )*M’J.. (boot d 
-38 

f0O0lec 6c65 290d 0a00 2028 Bebf 2064 6562 7567 1 e )*M’J.. (no d 


Absolute Positioning 


There are a few commands that perform absolute positioning. Typing a hex number 
moves you to that position in memory: 


10ec 
0010ec OOfO 17c0 4ef9 OOfO 179a 4ef9 OOFO 1786 ....“W..N...... W.. 


Also, Wack maintains an indirection stack to help you walk down linked lists of absolute 
pointers: 


4 

000004 0000 lLlec OOfO Oa8e OOfO 0a90 OOTO OaG2® .... Qi. eee Ferree e Jevees 
[ (use current longword as the next address) 

OOllec 0000 18f6 0000 1332 0900 OOfO O86a 0000 ....°X... 00 eS Sr LToweeccees 
] (return to the previous "indirected” address) 

000004 0000 llec OOfO Oa8e OOfO 0a90 OOTO OaGZ ....°Qi cee Jenn eee Jeeves 


88 ROM-Wack 


The find command finds a given pattern in memory, and the limit command determines 
the upper bound of the search. The pattern may be from one to four bytes in length. 
The pattern is not affected by the alignment of memory; that is, byte alignment is used 
for all searches regardless of the pattern size. 


To set the upper bound for a find command, type an address followed by limit or ~ 
The default bound is 1000000 hex. 


Altering Memory 


The = command lets you modify your current memory word: 


20134 

020134 0000 0000 0000 .....e ence 
020134 0000 = 767 

020134 0767 0000 0000 *G g........ 


If the frame size is zero, the contents of the word will not be displayed prior to your 
modification of that word: 


30 
dfogec 
DFFO9C xxxx = 71f 


If you decide not to modify the contents after typing a ==, press <RETURN> 
without typing a number. If you have already typed a number, type <CTRL-X>. 


The alter command performs a repeated = which is handy for setting up tables. While 


in this mode, the > and < will move you forward or backward one word. To exit from 
this mode, type a <RETURN> with no preceding number. 


ROM-Wack 89 


alter 

001400 0280 = 222 

001402 00C8 =< 

001400 0222 = 333 

001402 00C8 = 444 

001404 0000 = 0 

001406 3700 => 

001408 0000 = 68686 

00140A 0000 = < RETURN > 


You can modify registers when single-stepping or breakpointing. Typing ! followed by 
the register name (DO-D7, AO-A6), U) lets you make modifications. SR and SSP cannot 
be modified. 

The fill command fills memory with a given pattern from the current location to an 
upper bound. The limit command determines the upper bound of the fill. The size of 


the fill pattern determines the number of bytes the pattern occupies in memory. For ex- 
ample, typing 


fill <RETURN> 
45 


fills individual bytes with the value 45. Typing 


fill <RETURN> 
045 


fills words, and 


fill <RETURN> 
0000045 


fills longwords. 


Caution: Using the fill command without properly setting the limit can destroy data in 
memory. To set the upper bound for a fill, type an address followed by limit ora”. 


90 ROM-Wack 


Execution Control 


These commands control program execution and system reset: 
go execute from current address 

resume resume at current PC address 

“D resume at current PC address 


“I(tab) single instruction step 


boot reboot system (cold-reset) 
ig reboot system (cold-reset) 
Breakpoints 


ROM-Wack has the ability to perform limited program breakpoints. Up to 16 break- 
points may be set. The breakpoint commands are as follows: 


set set breakpoint at current address 

clear clear breakpoint at current address 

show _ show all breakpoint addresses 

reset clear all breakpoints 

To set a breakpoint, position the address pointer to the break address and type set. 
Resume program execution with go or resume. When your breakpoint has been 


reached, Wack will display a register frame. The breakpoint is automatically cleared 
once the breakpoint is reached. 


ROM-Wack 91 


Returning to Multitasking After a Crash 


The user command forces the machine back into multitasking mode after a crash that 
invoked ROM-Wack. This gives your system a chance to flush disk buffers before you 
reset, thus securing your disk’s super-structures. 


Once you type user, you cannot exit from ROM-Wack, so you should use this command 


only when you want to reboot after debugging. Give your disk a few seconds to write 
out its buffers. If your machine is in serious trouble, the user command may not work. 


92 ROM-Wack 


Appendix A 


C EXEC INCLUDE FILES 


This appendix contains the C-language include files that define the system data struc- 
tures used by Exec routines. 


This appendix is a printed copy of the Exec portion of the the SYS:includes directory on 
the Amiga C (Lattice C) disk. 


/y Aszowaur ou ‘’ooTtTe eue[td ust 

/» Aszouru ou ’A40d e7ee10 

/~ edky,e6pen Nv JO woz Ateacocer 
/+ 204 Aoepeb umouwjun 


/» Asowsu ou ‘dew3tgitd 

/» seyduy a03 Around ou ‘4x83 

/» Asouru ou ‘TITJ Poors 

oy septsoi ou ‘sures oe 

¥ oweu ou ‘surety DuUOCT 

/» Asouwu ou ‘pesy AST{ s4eddoo 

/* PeOTASAO AST[ SRzeTpoutequT seddoo 
/*= PeOTASAO ASTT Aeddoo 

/, Ascusu ou “ASTI uoT_ONAAQsuT seddoo 
/» Aszowsu ou ‘Ast{ Aetdstp eddos 


/» 204N0S YLdw ue jo () }onaQSgQTUL 
/¥ SAeAJeS Adns4eqUT 403 AxroUreU OU 
/* 3ASTT Axoueu peqdnss0) 

/» Axezaqy{T seu oq Axroureur ou 

/» @mMTTeZ umsyoeyo AreaqrT 

/* wMNSrD8eYo |sseqoexe 

/~ WMSxOSYO 10}00A UOoTAdGSoxe 00089 


£000T0V0X0 
ZO000TORBX0 
T0000000X0 
T0000008X0 
000000000 


/y Avesaqry  uotzyN{Auy 


000000€0x0 
/s 


W000TOZ8X0 
6000T0Z0X0 
8000TO0Z8X0 
LO000TOZBxX0 
9000T0Z8xX0 
S000TOZ8xX0 
700000280 
€0000078X0 
7000TOZ8X0 
TOOOTOZEX0 
00000020X0 


/~ Axeaqyt* sofydesb 


L00000TS8X0 
900000TSX0 
S00000TS8X0 
vO0000TSX0 
£00000TSX0 
700000TS8X0 
TOO0000TSX0 
000000T0X0 


SOTTWUSII NY SUTJEpH 
quogezeetD NW euTJepH 
qebpeoped NV SUTJOpPH 
edAy{ebped NW SUTJOp# 
UOTFATNAUT NY SUTJOpH 
------ +/ 


qt IssckeT NY SUTJOpH 
Axeaqrt'saeket ------ x/ 


deyntdiid NW SuTsyop# 
SeYyquL Axo] NV SUTJOpH 
TITAPOOTT NW SUTJOEPH 
eure tqj1OUS NW SUTJOp# 
oure1JOuoT NY SUTJopH 
peopq st 1dop Ny SuTsJep# 
4J®AQISTTIGOD NY OUTJopH 
ABAQIST1doD NW eUTJEpH 
Aqsuldop Ny euTsop# 
Ketdstqdop Nw euTzJepH 
qr isotyde.zn NW melas 
ee ¥ 


AAMVATUI- NW eSUTJOp# 
WeWAUI NY SUTJOpH 
qdn.10QURW NY SUTJepH 
WwoNdTT NW SUTJepH 
UMNSYUOATT NW SUTJEpH 
umgy~ujesed NW SUT ep 
qOeazdox” NW SuTJop# 
Qt YOOX” NW SuTJop# 


/ + ArteraqyT{*oexe ------ x/ 


[OEE E EERE EEN ERNE EN EERE EN EERE E ERE ERE ERE EED EERE EEE ESE ER EEE EERE EEEEY 


¥# 


SyeTy pug-peseg oTJTOedS x 


¥ 


PTeTELECUCTCCICCCCCOCOCTOCCOCCOCTTCCOCCCECCCTCIOCICSCTCECOLIST TITEL Lily 


TE080000X0 
0€080000X0 
770800000 
TC080000X0 
070800000 
S$T080000X0 
¥T080000X0 
€T080000X0 
7T080000X0 
TT080000X0 
0T080000X0 
600800000 
80080000X0 
£0080000X0 
900800000 
$0080000X0 


Zz obeg ysquelte/oexe 986T 6P:bT T Ady 


Youss{40mM” OW eUuTJEpH 
deajsjoog” OW SUuTJEpH 
DASYOSTW OW .SUTJEpPH 
OASWMISTC OW SUTJoEp# 
O4ASYVID OW eUTJEpH 
ASQASUT LT OW SUTJEpH 
ASTISTPOeAL OW SUTJEpH 
Aaqpseogkey Oy SuTJep# 
ASqqogeurey Oy SUTJOpt 
ABJeTOsUucD OY SUT EPH 
ASqgotpny OW euTJEpH 

QT TUCOT OW eUTJep# 

Qt Inve OW SUTJEpH 

Qt ISOd OV eUuTJEpH 
QTTIstTD OW SuTsJop# 
qtTUIeW OW SUTJEpPH 


%0080000X0 UOTIFNAUL OW SUTJOpH# 
€0080000x0 qryssuekeT oy eutzeptt 
Z0080000X0 qt IsoTudesg oy euTyop# 
T0080000x0 Q}]OSexY OW SuTjop# 
/» :sq0efqo quete ------ / 
00009000x0 AOAAZOI OW SuTJopi 
0000S000x0 seyuedg jy auTsept 
0000%000x0 Aequedg Sy euTJop# 
0000€000x0 qtquedg Sy euTsepH 
0000Z000x0 QT TOW Sy SuTsJopH 
0000T000x0 KiouPyON OW SuTyept 
/» Sepoo quete esodund [eseueb ------ y/ 


00000000x0 AzeACDeY Ly SUTIJEpH 
00000008x0 pugpeeq Ly eutTjop# 
/» sedkA quete ------ x/ 


LJ eERRRESUUESEEEUUEEESEEEEEUUPEEEUUUEREEEURE EEUU ER EE UVERERUE EERE ERE EEE 
¥ 

SISTW puy-peeg [Te1908uey , 

¥ 

OEE ERERENUUEEUUUUUUUUESUUSEREEEESESESESE ERP ERP EPROP ERE EE EEE EE EEE / 


LJ eORRE SEER ER EEE SES ESEESERES ESE REV EF EP EE EEE EEE EES ERE RES ESE REE EEE E EEE ES 
[Te_ep S10ul SEe_WeOTpUuT :4A011g OTJTOSdS 
SeM JO11e Ot ZeEYUM SeVeoTpuT ATYHNoA +1011 [e49Usy 
‘szequnu weysAsqns WOU sezeotput :prsAsqns 
HieTe pugqpesq -q 


¥ 

¥ 

3 

¥ 

¥ 

¥ 
prsfksqns_ |al ¥ 
¥ 

¥ 
sAeqUMU AOIUS VWieTe SyA jo Wyeuwiogq , 
¥ 

/ 


FEFFFEFFEEF FEF FPF FF EK FEF EEL EEE FEE FE ECE KE EEF EVE VEEL FEL EEE EERE ERE REE HE 


/+ Setasks:esegooxg ut y/ (T>>T) MOWMLYATW aS SUuTJEpH 
J ORR RRRERES ESSE UUUEEEEEE RES EEUEEESPPEEERER ERE REP EVER EERE SPUR ERE RES ES 
$ :AsxS0T$ 

$ dxq [4e> HH:S0:ST 8Z/80/S8 O'T A’U'SQAETe : 4epeeHs 


> TOAQUOD BOANHOS 


aqcanac aa « 


S¥ECEEEE ESE FERFS FSS FE SEES EFF ERE SEES PFE FEC HE FEE EF E EEL ESE EF ERPS KELP EEE ey 
¥ 
SlTJI Spnpour eaTyAnocexg weqshs HuTWeszedo WOU -- “OUT ‘ebTuy-S10poUMIOD , 
¥ 
CRREMERESEESEUEUEUSENUEREVEVEUEES EPP EPSP EUS USESES ES ERE VERE ENE EEE E SEES / 


H SLYaTW OSXA SUTJOPH 
H SLUT OaXA JOPUZ TH 


T obeg y'squele/Oexe O86T 6P:FT 


ANMNPNOKR DA 


A-2 


/+ A018 Ue peUuNAZe.s SPOS 300q 


/* 3TuUN SATQO’ OU :QdN.WEAQUT 
/+ ustp sey Apeaite :47uN 3205 


/+ ysenbe. peq 


/~« ATeM Jou, UO 40.118 :AeTOp 


x/ 


+/ 


x/ 


H SLWATW OaXa JTPUSH E6T 

Z6T 

000000TEX0 YOUS*IIOM NW SUTJOPH TET 
/= Yousecpjtoy ------ x/ 06T 

68T 

T000000€x0 AOIIGIOOG NY SUTJEP# SST 
0000000€x0 dersqs oog NW SUTJOpPH LET 
/» deaqs}00q ------ x/ 98T 

SST 

000000zzx0 OASYOSTW NW SUTJEpP# FST 
/~ QOMOSSL*OSTUl ------ x/ €8T 

ZeT 

ZOO000TZXO  3OWONIUTUC NW SUTJOPH TEST 
T00000TZx0 ASTASeHYC NW SUTJOPH OST 
000000TZX0 OASY|ISTC NW SUTJEpH ELT 
/= SOANOSSeA’HSTP ------ x/ SLT 

LLT 

00000002X0 OASYWID NW SUTJOPH YLT 
/= POAMNOSEA* CTO ------ x/ SLT 

PLT 

T00000STX0 boypegnL NW SUTJSep# ELT 
000000STX0 AQQASUT LNW SUTJOpPH# ZLT 
J+ S0}Aep: Jeu ------ x/ TL 

OLT 

Z00000bTX0 Aeleaadl NW SuTJep# 69T 


y eg q'szieyte/ooxe 9861 6P:PT T Ady 


[= AOLIB YVOS :GZEACFTES ¥/ TOOOOOPTXO PSESATIEOGL NV SUTISOPH 


/y KeT4eao peq 

/+ MHuer Jo Ano for 

[= 40143 ASTP 

/» WNSO9YS PTTPAUT 

/» 9023 Apeoute Aor 

/~ 30nas00 deujtq 

/~ 40128 SoueNbes YooTq »AsSTp 
/+ PeTTey CeAeerg 

/* PEATEOSA Yorxoed peRoedxeun 
/= PaNTTeEZ W1GH 

/+ 4,UPTP 4SeLpug 

/~ Gnquejs ye Arousu ou 


/~ S0FAepP STOSUOS SYA UedO 3, UPTNOD 

/+ UoTSUeYyPidUOoUT Huysned oyoS piATem 
/+ Addl Aq peateoo.1 ebessou peq 

/* UOFAZINAUT HuT4seque uanje1 oReRs peq 
/» AsAouScU OU ’MOpUTM UuedoO 

/» Asouwul ou ‘szeHpeH mg ppe 

/+ 20) umouwjun ‘useesz0s sAs uedo 

/+ Asousul ou ‘SOTTe 4eqAser ‘usee10s uedo 
/» Asowsw ou ’use10s usedo 

/¥ OA®ZTEY > dol xoq uBzT 

/+ Asousul ou ‘ooTtTe suetd 

/» Asourmul Ou ‘OOTTe qns 


000000bTX0 ASMIST@IOeAL NW EUTJEP# 
/-= SOTASP*HSTpHOeAQ ------ x/ 
Q00000ETXO Aagpsreoqhey NW SUTJopH 
/= B0}fAep’ paeoghay ------ +/ 
000000ZTX0 Aa zA0geureQ-NY SUTIEpH 
/~= SBOFAep’ quodeureH ------ y/ 
QO0000TTXO ABqeTOSUCD NY SUTJepH 
/~ QOTA@P'@TOSUOD ------ ¥/ 
Q000000TX0 ASQGOTPNY Ny SUuTJopH 
/+ S0TAep oTpNe ------ v/ 


00000060x0 QT TUOOT NY SUTJOpH 
/y Asesaqrtqytwera ------ / 
00000080x0 Cty NW SuTsJep}# 
J» Axexqytqytwes ------ »/ 
200000L0x0 Aelszsaopeg NY SUTJepH 
G00000L0x0 obueyAoy NY SUTJopH# 
W00000L0x0 AOAATISTG NW SUTJop# 
600000L0x0 UNS>>Ope_ NW SUTJepH 
800000L0x0 eoighey NY SUTJOpHt 
L£00000L0x0 deyita NW SuTzeptt 
90000020x0 besgrtg4std Nw euTJep# 
S00000L0x0 DSAS21T NY SUTJOpPH 
#90000L0X0 pidouAsy NW eUTJEpHt 
€00000L0x0 T¥eavidd NW SUuTJepH# 
Z00000L0X0 ySeLpuy NW SuTJoEpHt 
TO00TOLOX0 We,seIS NW SUTJOpH 
000000200 QtISOC NW @UTzJopH# 
/~ Aseraqyt'sop ------ / 

00000090x0 ATTASTIO NW SUTJOpH 
Jy AxeaqyTAST[O ------ x/ 
000000S0x0 AtTUIeW NY SUTJOpt 
/~= AxerqyT yeu ------ x/ 
J00000%8X0 STOSUODONTNY SUTJEp# 
d00000%8X0 OUS"PATeM NY SUTJEpH 
G00000%8x0 Sbesseypeg Ny SUTJOpH 
9000008x0 a 7eI{Spe_g NY SUTJOpH 
Goootorsxo MopuTMUedO NY SUTJOpH 
WOOOTObExXO Jebpequsppw NW SUTJOpH 
600000%8x0 sdALUsogsAs NW SUTJopH 
B000TOPSX0 YseyUsOSuedO Ny SUTJepHt 
LOOOTOPEXO Useeto0SUuedO NY eUTJep}# 
900000%8x0 dolxoguezI Ny SUuTJepH 
GOOOTOvSX0 XSOTTYeUeTq NW SUTJOpH 
YO00TOOX0 OOTTWANS NW SUTJOpPH 


89T 
LoT 
99T 
S9T 
v9OT 
€9T 
cot 
TST 
09T 
6ST 


LsT 


cert 
ceT 
Tet 
oeT 
62T 
8eT 
Let 
9cT 
S2T 
vet 
eet 
eeu 
Tet 
02T 
6TT 
STT 
LTT 
OTT 
STT 
vITt 
€TT 


A-3 


€ sheg ysztele/oox® O86T 6P:bT T ady 


/+ YAHuet prTea e jou y/ F- HIONATTGVE WAOI SuTJEpHt 

/+ pezsoddns jou puewoo ,/ ¢- GADON WUFOI +SUuTJEptt 

/+ peyoge ysenbei y/ Z- CaLYyOdW WasOI SUTJEpHt 

/» vedo 03 pettez yyun/eotaAep y/ T- ‘TIVINAdO YasIOI SUTIEpH 


J eeeeeEeERURUEREVEREEESUERESESUEUEVESERE VEER EVEDEUERESEUSERESUERES ESE 
$ 2499007 
$ dxq T4eS HT:L0:ST 8Z/80/SB8 OT A’YSAOAIS : AEpesHs 

2 [O1QU0) SOANOS 


enanaana «& 


FREVFPEFE EVEL FEF ELE LEFF SFE ESE RELFE PELE SLY ECF ELE LE FEEL EF EF ELE EL EY FEY F 
¥ 


lta SpnTouy Sat {noexg we AsMs Huy Aesedo WOU -- “OUT ‘ebyuy-S10poumOD 


¥ 
PERERENEUUNEEENUUESSSESEREUUESSEVESESURESUSESUUEERERESEEEE EEE EEEEEEES/ 


T ebeg y°si011e/9exe 9O86T Lb:7Z € ueEL 


ANONGMNOR OA 


JTPUSH OF 


(T>>T) NSWINI ALINN SUTJOpH FH 
(0>>T) AALIOW ALINN SUTJepH ECF 


cy 
T? 
‘{ oF 
/+ suedo eatjoe Jo sequnu ,/ {quguedg“3y7un  qyomn 6€ 
‘ped"3tun gixdn se 
‘sheTJ~3tTun = gLxan Le 
/+ seBesseu pessesoidum 403 enenb y/ ‘q10gfsw4yun, qogbsW Jonas 9¢ 
} 3¥un yon44s CE 
vE 
| eeeReeReEORERUUNEESERUUEEESSERUUUUENSSES0000E8888800008 2TUN. vyeees/ 2 
Te 
‘{ o€ 
‘Axezqry pp Axesq¢] ons 6Z 
} SoFAed FONNS BZ ey 
“eo, 
J eeee¥eeuRE¥ENESEEEEESESSESUESESUSEESESSESEESESEES EEE EY SOTAST eveeey/ = < 
c 


H SINOd OAXa! JTPUSH EZ 
wd’ Sqjt0d/oexe,, SOpNTOuUT# 77 
H SLuOd O¢xXA JOPUITH TZ 


H SaIUVadIT OFX FTPUSH ET 
yA SOTAeAQTT/OOxe,, OPNTOUTH# ST 
H SAIMWaaIT OdXA JOPUSTH LT 


J eeeeeREUESEREDESSREVESUSUESUEVESUSRESESUESUEUESEEVESEEEUEDESEEEEEEES es 
$ 248007 : et 

$ dxZ T4e> 0S:90:ST 927/80/S8 O'T A’U'SeoTASp : tepeeHs : rt 

2 TOAWUOD SINE : 6 

Was sea ousaveunscee seen ecussdcerseneus eee eiesissieriesec nis 1 
SlTd Spn{sur SAt{nsexgy weyshg Huy zestedg WOU -- ‘our ‘ebyuy-e1r0poumoD : g 
sess obeceuy il eveus eau en vee eUe tana euWesdeunvuNENueea eeeasiceme : 
H SADIAad OaXaA =OUTJOPHE Z 

H SADIASC OAXA =JOPUITH T 


T ebeg q’seoyaep/sexe O86T Lb:7Z € ueL 


![9T] sQO@AQUI A0Q0@ARQUI «=ONAAS 


J eevee eEURRUVEUUEEUEERDEESEEE EEE EEEEEEE DOTETOY qdnasequl seveey/ 


sumMgqq) dyOMNn 


-3XgPASY ULdV 

SeVeCGVeIW ULdW 

seqzeqhngeq ULdW 

sAajugbnqeq = ULdv 

-US_OOTXeW ONOIN 

/+ (punoq szemot) xoe3s weqsks jo doj y/ ‘4emopiyysshs ULdv 
/+ (pumoq seddn) eseq yoeRs weqshs y/ ‘aeddnyysshs ULdW 
feamnqdequuem ULdW 

‘aanqdegtoo) §=Uldv 

/* JOJOSA QJOS VaeAspTOo y/ ‘eanqdeDpIodD ULldv 

/~ AUsUPTdUCS 4equtod eseq weqshs ,/ fesepPmty ONOIN 
SUMS TDUEWMOT CyOM 

/~  aequmu eseeTet 24e4Sx9TH »/ /4@A3309S TaOMN 


‘oponqr¢ry 9 Azeaqty Aonz4s 


} esegoexg Aon43s 


H SuSWL Daxai FTPUSH 
ud’ Sxsez/oexe,, Spn[OUTH 
H SuSWL OAXA JOpus TH 


H SaIuWadIT OmXai JTPUSH 
ad’ SeTszeAqTT/oexe,, SpN[TOUT# 


H SdIewedIT OdXa Jopus Tt 


H SIdNaasINI OdXai JTPUSH 
ad’ Sadn2z18{UuT/oexe,, OPN[OUT# 


H SIdNYagINI OgXa JOPUS TH 


H SISIT Oaxdi JTpusit 
ud’ SOTAeAQTT/oexe,, SPNTOUT# 
H SISIT O3Xa JOPUz TH 


J RRR RRRUREEEEEESEEEEEERERUEESEEEUEUEEPEEES ESE EEE EEEEESEEEEREEEEEEEEES 


$ [Ato :4aex007$ 
$ dxg [Tae 97:0T:9T ZT/IT/S8 T’°T A’ eseqoexe : 4epeoHs 
3 TOAQUOD SOANCS 


i 


FEFFECESFFFFEFEF ECE FEF EK FE EFL FE LEVEL ELE EF ELF EE EF EFF EEE FF FEF FES EYEE F 


¥ 
SlTa SEpnypouy eaTynosexg weyshs Hbuyyesedo WOU -- “OU ‘ebTuy-S10poumloD 


# 

CRREVEEUEEEVESV USED SSOPECUEEUEEVEERSERVEEEVEEEEEESeEREESyererrer eee s/ 
H 3SWaOaXa OAXA SUTJOPH 

H dSWaoaXe OSXA =FOPUTTH 


T aeg yoeseqoexe/oexe 986T LP:72Z 


ANMNANHOKR DA 


ueL 


yW' OT/O8xe,, SpNTOUTH 

yn’ SSOTASP/OEXxE,, SpNTOUTH 
yd SeTAeAqTT/oexa,, SPNTOUTH 
yU' SHSEI/OoxS,, OpNTOUT#H 

WU Sq40d/oexe,, Spn[TOuUT#H 

WU Atousu/oexe,, SpN[TOUT# 

ud’ Sqdnszs98qUutT/oexe,, SpNTOuT# 
wt’ SYSTT/OSxXe,, SPNTOUTH 

ud’ Sepou/sexe,, SpnTOUT#t 


tT eeg y°ooxe/oexe® 986T LP:7Z 


ore 
eet 


ANMNPENONR ADA 


uel 


yATeAQTT *OOxe,, INWNOAKA SuUTJSEp# Z 
/~ *OUl ’ebTu-ercpoumoD y/ T 


T eHeg qoueudexe/oex® O86T L¥:7Z © uUeL 


©3eY AOOTD 
OSIN/TWd 


J TPUSH 


6 ZHOS GaW SUTJopHt 
8 Wd Gav SutsopH# 


0Z7089 dav SUTJepH 
/+ (TTaK Se 0Z089 AOZ AOS UTEUA TITH) ¥/ 0 01089 Gav SUTJEPH 
/* 2=S4aossecoid-og pue Siosses0i1g ;/ 


/eeeevy SHETIUIA v¥xeey/ 


(esegooxg  3OnaQS )JOSZTS AZISASWASAS SUTJOpH 


{ 


‘[g] poasoseyesegooxg SNOT 


‘(p]asetwasel SNOT 


LeReeReeEsESEEEEYEEEESESEESEDET ERE SER ERE¥ERE STEQOTO 49470 v¥seys/ 


‘[¢] squrazog ASTFIBUIAZOS 


SIFEMASSL ASTT 
SApeaypjselL AST 
-3STT}410d ASTT 
*3STIQTT ASTT 
/4SFJT4AqUI ASTI 
-4STTOOTAed 3STtT 
:4STTeomnosey 4STtT 
S3STTWOW ISTT 


qONAAS 


qon134s 
Q0on13s 
Qona34s 
Qona4s 
Qonaq4s 
Qon.4s 
qon134s 
qon.Qs 


J eeeeeeeesEs¥EE¥E¥E¥EsETssEssssysesesesessesy SISTT UWEISAS ¥¥¥sys/ 


Jo0TTywdespyseL dyomn 
JOOTTWOTSHSeL ONOTN 
fQponITXPASeL ULdV 

fepoajdeoxspyiseL UldWv 
‘epogdespyseL UldW 


/~ Aequtod Aeisze STNpou QuepTses ,/ ‘SOTNPOWSeyY ULdV 
/~ uot {UEAIe Hut[npeyose.z ,/ ‘peyoseyuzjy dyOmMn 

/+ sHetz uotqueqze TeToods ,/ ‘sHeTquzaw auomn 

/+ yUM0o Buy seu eTqestp yse3 ,/ 7QUDISONGL SLAG 

/+ ynoe Hut Aseu eTqestp AdnsiequT ;/ ‘quo3SenqI aLAG 
/+ sbety weqshs ostu ;,/ ‘sbeTasAs qyuomn 

/~* S%OFZ umquenb Auesins ,/ ‘pesdetg quomn 

/~ unquenb soTTS cut ;y/ ‘umjueng GyOmn 

/+ 2 3UN0S Yo edstp y/ ‘qunoodstq ONOTN 

/~ A@YUNCD STPT y/ ‘QuNODeTPI ONOTN 


/~= AS€Z WueraNnS oF 4ejutTod yf =! HSeLSTULy ASSL 


qon13s 


8S 


J eEREREREESUMESESEEESESSPESESESSEE EEE BEES SOTQCTACA we 3shkS xves¥%/ LS 


A-6 


Z obeg y'eseqoexe/oox® 986T Lb:7Z E ueL 


aLWddN GW) SuTJSopH 
SLIGM GW) SuTzopH# 


LaASaY GND SutTsopH 


v 
€ 
Z Qvaet GD eutTsepH 
T 
0 


GITWANI GND SuTJop# 


(o>>1T) NOINO JaOI OuTJOpH 
0 MOING GOI SuTJEpH 


‘{ 

/s 

‘TpeAtesey OT ONOTN / 
‘Tpeasesoy-oF = ONON 

¥ SSOTASP peinjonajs ATG 403 Wessjo. ,/ -28S330 OF SONOTN : 

/» ease ejzep 03 squtod ,/ Seqeq OF °ALaW 
/ypertejsuet3 soqAq szequmu pe senbe. ,/ ‘yqbueT oF = SONOTN 
/ perstejsuery seqhq jo szequmu Tenjoe ,/ STenqoy oF ONOTN 
/» wnu HupureA JO Joie ,/ {A041 OF FLAG 
/ oo. ‘sbeTy OF agLAAN 
y PUCULIOD SOTASP x ‘puewwoy of  QyomMn 
/+(exeatad seatap) yyun ,/ ‘ATU “OT; yun «3ONaAs 
/~ Ae ,uTod epou eotAep ;/ {SOTACQ OTy SOTASQ WONIQS 
‘eBbessey ot ebessoy Won14s 

} beypyzsoI on43s 

“{ 
/» wou Sutuszem 10 10110 ;/ {A0AAT OF FLAG 
/ / :sbeT7 OF aLAAN 
yx PUCUWWIOD SOTASP , /puewwloy OF  GaomMn 
/+(eyeaTad szeatap) ytun ,/ ‘3TUN-OT, == TUN -AONAQS 
/~ Ae \utod spou sotaep ;/ {QOTASQ OFy SOTASQ WoONaAS 
‘aessoy of eHessoy jonaqs 


} ysenbeyoI Aon44s 


H SLYOd O3XaI JT PUSH 

yd’ Sq40d/oexe,, spn [ouT# 

H SLYOd OaXa JOopuz t+ 

JL eRRERERENEEEEEEUVERESE SE EERUUEEESEEERUUUEE EEE ER EURUEEEEUEEEEEUEEEEEES 
$ :AsHooI$ 

$ dxqJ Taeo 0€:0T:ST 8Z/80/S8 O°T A’Y'OT :4epeoys 


> TOAQUOD SOANOS 


“_«& eee KH 


FEVFF FEF EF ELSE FEC E RIES EVE FEL EF ELE EEE EEE F ELE FFF EEE EEE VEEL EEE FEL EEE EE HF 
¥ 
SlTq OPNTOUT SeaTQnoexg weqsig Hut Qeszsedo WOU -- “our ‘eHtuy-e10poumioD , 


¥ 

AACA GAO IO OOOO OO Ess / 
H OI OdxXd 9 SuTsJopt 

H OF OdXd = JOpusT# 


T ebed yot/oexe 986T LP:2Z 


ANMNPNHWUOLK ODA 


JTpuc# 
(03x0) ASWNIUd HIS SuTJepH 
:{ 

‘peg us qmaomn 


‘ASTT US ASTI 30n23s 


/» \XINO esn Sexy 407 ;/ } ASTIQUIAJOS QONI3s 


:{ 
‘OPON-ATy SPON 3ONI9S 
: () (epoD~ATy) GIOA 
feqeq-at ss ULaW 


/* \XINO eSn Sexy 407g »/ } AOVOSARUT JoON1Q4S 


:{ 
!() (@poD-stx) = GIOA 
-e ed St aLd¥ 
‘@PON ST SPOON WONAAS 
} adnauequl jona4s 


/» Aaque epod seares ;,/ 
/» Jueubes ejep sesses ,/ 


H SLISIT OaxXgai J TPUSH 
wd SISTT/O@xe,, Spn[OUT#H 
H SLSIT O9Xa JOPUSTH 
H SaGON OgXai J} PUSH 
yW' Sepou/oexe,, Spn[ouTH# 
H SHCON OdXd JOPUS TH 


[OeeeeeeRRRERUESESESESEREREEUBEEESEESESEPVUVEVEVUVEVUE FEF EE EEE EEE EE EE EE 
$ :4eN007$ 
$ dxq Taeo €6:60:ST 82/80/SB OT A’ SqdniueqUyT : 4epeoHs 


:TOA\QUOD SBo.mNo0S 


enna ace a & 


VEVECEFRFFSFVRFEF RHEE RHE FR FFEFE FF EEE F ERE VE FE FEF PERE FEEL EFF PF EF EPP EE TY 
% 
STI EpnTouy SaTynoexg weyshs Hut Zesz8edO WON -- “Sul ‘eDbTuly-SiCpouMloy) x 


¥ 
PACER U ROU Ua arises y sys eeyss/ 
H SLdNYasINI OdXA SUuTJopH 
H SLdNYYALNI DaXA JoOPUrTH 


T e6eg ysqdnsssquyt/oexe = 986T bS:bT 


ANMNPMNON OA 


SZTSHeN ATT ezTshSen ul euTjopH 
ped att ped yl eutjopt 

sbelrz qit shel zy eutsopH# 
SPON ATT SPOON UT SUTJOpPH 
/+ Aatitatyeduog Aresroduey, ;/ 


/» ebundxe peketep y/ (€>>T) dXATIC adIT SUTJOpH 

/~= UMS 02 ABYVIOG PTNoys om JF WES ,/ (Z>>T) GASNNNS 3AGII eUuTJEpP} 
/*s UT euA pebueyo ysnf eaey om ,/ (T>>T) GIONVHD JGIT SuTzop# 
/+ SuTuumsyoeyo ATQUezmMSO eue 3M ,/ (0>>1) ONIWNNS JGIT SuTJop} 


“{ 
/+ suedo Que1und> Jo sequmu ,/ Squguedg-qtt dayomn 
/+ JTOSIF uMsOeyo oy ;/ ‘ums~qtT  ONOTN 
‘6uTAASPI ATT aLdv 
SUOTSTASY ATT dyxomn 
/UOTSASA-QTT CaOMNn 
/y Arzeaqry szeqye seqzkq jo sequmu ,/ ‘@zTSsod qt{ daomn 
/» Axeaqyy e10jeq seziq Jo sequmu ,/ ‘eztsben- att dyomn 
‘ped qtt aLxAGN 
‘sbela Qqtl  aLAN 
S@PON QTT SpoN 3ON.13S 
} Axeaqr] qonays u1934xe 


(bz-) ONNALXA AIT SuTJopH 

(eT-) AONNAXA AIT SuTJop# 

(ztT-) ASOIO GIT SuTJop# 

(9-) NadO GIT Sutsop# 

(aaquasn a11) GISNON GIT SuTzopit 

( (AZISIOJA GIT¥QSANaSAW AIT) -aJSva a1) aagdaaSN GIT SuTsop}# 
(AZISLOSN GI1-) ASWA GIT SuTJop# 


v GaANaSIA AIT SuTsJop# 
9 AZISLOJA AIT SUTJoptt 


H SAdON Daxai J TPUSH 

yd’ Sepou/oexs,, Spn[OUT# 

H SAGON OaXa JOPus TH 

LOeeR eR UEREEEREEENNNEE EEE EEE ERE EYELEEEN EEE EEELEEEEEEEENEEEEEREYEEEEES 
$ :4aex00T§ 

$ dxJ TAeS 9G:0T:ST 82/e0/SsB O'T A’YSeTAeAgTT :4epeeys 


:TOAQUOD Bo.1NnE¢g 


“_“annann « 


FIVER EERE ET ESE EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE KES EEE KEE EEE EE SEE EERE EEL EEF Y 


¥ 
SITq SPN[OuU]. SAT Anoexy we sks Hut Qesedo Woy -- ‘our “ebHTuy-o10poumloy , 


¥ 
PPSPSECSSOSTOCCOSSSSOCCOCCSSSICCCCOSTOSLCOL OTITIS TTT eter erst titi t tr ii ty / 
H SAIuWasIT DAXA SUTJOPH 
H SaIMWaEIT OdXA = JOPUT TH 


T ebeg Ysofsesqi{/oexe 986T Lb:7Z 


ANONPNOR OA 


uel 


A-8 


JTpust 9 

£9 

GISNON CWD SUTJepH 729 
T9 

HSNTI GHD SUTJeP#H 09 
LUVIS GHD SUTJSp#H 6S 
dOLS GND SUTJSEp# 8S 
awa GND SuTJopH 1S 


mWonrod a 


z obeg y'ot/oex® Og6T Lb:7Z € ueL 


sTPuUSH OC 


6Z 
‘{ 92 oO 
‘ped"t agLAGN LZ 
‘edAL-UT LAAN 92 < 
‘peAGITeL UTy ESPON ON4AS Gz 
‘ITeEL Us SPON JONaAS bz 
/PeECH UTy ESPON 3ONI4S €Z 
} ASTI RON4QS 22 
TZ 
0z 


H SdadON Daxai JTPUSH 6T 
yd’ Sepou/lexe,, SpN[OUT# ST 
H SAH0ON OdXa JOPUSTH LT 


oT 
J eeeeReEvEVENEREREDEESERESERESEREREREREPEREREUEESESEUEVE EERE EVER ESE ST 
s OT 
$ :Asyo0T$ -» ET 
: x ZT 
$ Gxg [4eO EZ: TT:ST 87/e0/SB OT A’USASTT :sepeoHs » TT 
x OT 
:TOAQUOD BOUNCS «yf C6 
* 8 JTpUuSH F9 
FSV E VEE EE TEESE EEE ESE E VEE SELES SEF ESF SFE FEF FFE FEFFSFEFEFLE TELE FEF PEF EYE L a €9 
58 quguedg qtT  uQuedQ UT SUTJep# 79 
SITdA SpnTouy SatTAnvexg weqAshs HuyAesedy Woy -- ‘our ‘ebtuy-e1cpoumloD » ¢ ums 4tT ung UT SUuTJop# TO 
x 8 HuTszASPI-Qt{T Huyayspr-ul suTzep# 09 
EUERUESUES EERE EES ERUESUSEUESEEESESEVESEEESESEES ESSE ESE EENeEeyEereErY/ © UCTSTASY ATT UoTsyTAey UT SUTJepH 6S 
H SLSIT D3Xd ~=SuTJopH Z UOTSASA ATT UOTSASA YT SuUTJEpH# ES 
H SLSIT Daxa JOPUJTH T eZ2zTSsod Att SZTSSOd UL SuTzep# LS 


T weg y°sqstt/ooxe 9861 Lb:7Z € ueLr z ebeg yseypsesqy[/ooxe 986T Lb:7Z € ueL 


3 Tpus# 


L YSYWIDOTd WAN SUTJEPH 
8 aAZISMOTd WAN SUTJOpPH 


(LT>>T) ISHOIWT ANIN SUTJEpH 


(9T>>T) Wwe JWAIW SUTJOpH 
(Z>>T)  <ISwWad ANIN CUTJEpH 
i} dIHD aWIWN SUTJOpH 

O0>>T) OI'TGNd ANIN SUTJepH 


| precee enn n nono ene --------- sedk], Quewestnbey A1ouspy ----- x/ 


/+ AATTTaTVedUOD ,/ aN Tu seul yur eutzepi# 

‘{ 
‘(t] aww Aaququey, 3On23s 
‘sot AQuqUMN TW = GYOMN 
‘OPON TW SPOON YOnaAAS 

} asTTweW = JOnaAs 


/~ aque ysitz ey y/ 
/+ JORIS STqQ UT seTzQUe Jo sequnU ,/ 


J eeeeeREeER¥ECESERESEEUERERESEEVEUEEEUESESEEESE¥E889838 ASTTOOW veyey/ 


z e6eg q:Asowsul/sexe O86T SS:bT T Ady 


08 
6L 
SL 
LL 
OL 
SL 
BL 
€L 
ZL 
TL 
OL 
69 
89 
49 
99 
=) 
09 
€9 
z9 
19 
09 
6S 
8S 
LS 


appy neu’ un Sul appy Sul SuT Ep Ht 
sbey neu up eur sbey eu SUuTJopH 
/+ AATTFaFyedU0S ,/ up oul UN” Sul SUTJOpH 


“{ 
‘yqbueyT ea = ONOTN 
‘ug eu { 
- Ippy Neu wd 
‘sbey new  SONoOmn 
} uotun 
} Axquqwey 3on-4s 


/» uotTbes Axowsu stuR jo yybue, em ,/ 


/+ UoTbe1s Axowsul sTyR JO sseuppe ey ;,/ 
/» Squeusipnbet WeyPoTTy SuQ ,/ 


LeRORRERRE EERE EERE EREREEEEEEEESEREUUUUREEEEEEEREEEES AIQUAUCHY xxx eys/ 


‘{ 

‘eouz am 

‘ zeddy7uu ULaw 

‘JomoT ym =: UL dW 

{QsupA Uy xUMYQWe_ 3ON44S. 

Sseqnqyaqqy Wu 
‘epon yw epoN 3ON1Qs 

} Aepeoxque_, = ON1QS 


/+ SezAq Se1z JO sEquMU TeIO2 y/ 
/s T+punoq A.1oweu sueddn ,/ 
/s punoq Ax1oweul 4eMoT ,/ 
/* uoTbet eBe4J YS4TZ y/ 


/~+ voTber sTyA JO SOTFASTAe_oereYyo ,/ 


J ERReERESEEEETERERESESEEESESESESESESEESUESESYESES44% JOPCOHUDY xeyyyy/ 


‘{ 

‘seqyig7ou = SNOTIN 

/QXON OU, YUNUQUEW 3ONAAS 
} junQQUE_, «3ON.4s 


/+  ezts eyhq »uny ;/ 
/~ UNYS YxXEU 02 48qUTOd ,/ 


LJ EReEeEERERESEESESEESEESEEE ESE EEE EUESEESESEDES EE EESES MUNUDUOW ¢yyyey/ 


H SAIGON OdXaI JF TPUSHE 

wd’ Sepou/oexe,, Spn[OUT# 

H SHGON OaXa JOPUZ TH 

JL ReResEREREESESEEREGEERE EUEEUEEUEEEEDEUEUEUEUEED ERE EOE EUEEYEREEEEEEY 
$ :4ex00T$ 

¢ dxq [4eO 6%: TT:ST 8z/s80/se O°T A’Y’AAOwSU : 4epeoHs 


:TOAQUOD Somos 


_“axxnnan «& 


EERSEEEEREE EERE RSE REESE EES E REE EERE EEE EERE EEE E EERE ESE EER EV EEE REESE EE EY 
¥ 
SlTd SPNTOUL SAT Anoexy we yshks Hutyeszedo WOY -- “oury ‘eHtTuly-e10poumc; , 


¥ 
FEEERENVEEEEEEUEUENEEESEEEEEEEEEEEEUEEEEE EERE EEE EV EEE EE EEE EEE yy eye E/ 
H AaOWAW DaXAT 9 SUTJOPH 
H AYOWIW DEXA =FJOPUZTH 


T e6eg y°Arousul/oex® 986T SS:hT 


ANONDNOKR ODA 


A- 10 


ady 


:{ 
/» seqkq uy vet obessou vy ‘qn6ueyu = quomn 
/- od A{dea eGessou y/ ‘qu0gkTdey um, JiogSsw 3On-4s 
‘@poN UM @pON ONS 


} eBessopy Jon.4s 


/eeaeREsERESERERESESERESESESREEEEUEESERERESERERERE SESS @Hessopl xxeysy/ 


AYONOT Wd SuyzopHt 
INILIOS Wd Sutzop# 
TWNOIS Wd Sutzep# 


oatN 


€ NOLL ad eutzop# 
yserStg "di quyi3jog du eurzep# 


:{ 
‘Ast Tsw "dm AstT 
‘ysel5tg diy se] 
‘yTqbtg du 

‘shel aa aLXAN 

‘epon Gul spon Wonsz4s 
} qogisy Qona3s 


qon.4s 
qona4s 
a.LAGN 


/+ ASTI PUTT ebessou ,/ 
/+ peteubts eq 03 se y/ 
/~+  <secqumu 3fq Teubts ;/ 


L eeeReREREREERESER ESE EESE EER EES ESTES EEE EEE EEUEEEE EES WOGSH] xeyyyy/ 


H SUSWI OSXai JTPUSH 
vt’ SxSe7/Ooxe,, OpNTOUTH 
H SNSWL OSXA JOPUS TH 
H SLISIT Ogxai JTPuSt 
nd’ SISTT/Oexe,, SpNTOUTH 
H SLISIT DaxXd JOPUS TH 


H SSCON OaXai JFTPUSH 

wd Sepou/oexe,, SpnTouT# 

H SSCON OdXa JOpust#t 

L eeReeeRRREEUERRESEREEEEEEEEEVEEEEEEEEEEEREESEREEEEEEEEEEU EEE ERUEEEEES 
$ :ASxOOT$ 

& dxq [4€O SP: IT:ST 2ZT/TT/S8 T°T A’U’SqOd : uepesys 

$ TOAQUOD SOANoS 


ene n nn eH 


BREE EKEEEEEEESEFESSEESEFFEEEEEEE REEVE LELEFE FEE F FFE SESE EEE SEER E EE 
¥ 
Sita Spntour eaTAnoexg weqshks HuTWQes18edo WOU -- “UL “eDTuly-SuOpouMloy) x 

¥ 


COREA AAA UA AAO UU AA EO Oa rr Err rer sss / 
H SLYOd OsXA +=SUTJOPH 
H SLYOd OgXaT + JeOpust# 


T seg y°sqsod/oexe 986T 9S:FT 


ANMPNOKR ODA 


2 Pus 


YT FYOHAWNAS IN SUTJOpH 
€T SSH00dd IN SUuTzZEpH 
eT INO IN SUtJopH 
TT JINILAOS IN SutzZopH 
oT XAOWSNTIN SUTJFEpPH 
XWAGIT IN SUTZopit 
ADINOSAN IN SUTJopHt 
OSWATdIY IN SUTJOPH 
OSWATaT IN SutsopH 
AOWSSAWN IN SUTJOpH 
LYOGISW IN SUTJOpPH 
ADIAAC IN SuTzep# 

@ LdNYaSINI IN Sutzep# 

T ASW IN SUTJopH 

0 NMONDINNIN SUTJepH 

| ¢-------- sedk], Spon ----- v/ 


‘{ 


OVNOM OAH 


/oureny UT 

: Fag UT 

‘adAL Ut 
“polguTy SPpON 3ON44S 
Joong UTy SpOoN  Wona4s 

} Spon Fon23s 


zeyo 
SLAG 
a.LAGNnN 


LORE ERE EERE EERESEEEREESEESEEUEESEESEEETEEUERE RES EET EEREREER EEL ERE ETS 
§ :48xOO1$ + 

$ dxy [T4eo €G:7Z:8T ZT/TT/S8 T'T A’USopou : tepeoHs : 

:TOAQUOD BSounodos 

¥ 


SESE ESE ELE E SESE ERLE CELE ESET EF EFF EVEL FR FEL FT EF EERE EEE R ESV EF EET 
¥ 


SlTd SpNTouL eaTQnoexy weqAsks Huyyeszedo WOU -- “our ‘ebTuy-a10poumloD , 


* 
ER EREVEREREUSENENEUSESEREV ERE EE SEE EEE EERE EE EP EVER EET Er EE ES EE ee s/ 
H SH0ON OaxXad 9 SUTJEpH 
H SddGON OSXA 9=JOPUTTH 


T abeg y'sepou/sexe 986T L¥:2Z 


ANONGPNOK DA 


A-11 


uel 


Mor 


(0>>T) 
(L>>T) 


OIWOX0 


/+ _ Spo0o 3TUT 03 sequTod ,/ 

/s Huy4sys AuepT 03 seqUTOd ,/ 

/* eureu spou 03 se juTOd ,/ 

/+ Aayaoyad uofxRezyTeTaUy »/ 

/s (2{qumw-IN) STnpow Jo edAQ y/ 
/+ AequmU UOTSIEA eseeTe1 ;/ 

/* sHetz 5ez snotuea ;/ 

/~  ueos enuT QUO 03 sseuppe ,/ 


J TPUSH 


LYWLSAIOO MLY + SUuTJep# 
UIAIN MLY SUTJopHt 
NJHM WLU SUTJep# 

/+ :AQtttaTWedMoD ,/ 


LUVISTIOO ALY SuTzZep# 
LINIOLINY ald 9 Sutsept 


CaOMHOIWW OLY =SUuTJepH 


‘QTUI-AA UW 


‘buyaysprlro jug Aeyo 


‘ouren” qd, aeyoO 
‘Fag-34 SLAG 
‘edA~34 ALAAN 
SUOFSASA~AA FLAGN 
‘shel 734 FLXGN 
‘dypispug-34  ULdW 


/+  aoge ay3.03 sAequtod y/ ‘belyoqeW qty Jueptsey Jon.3s 


/* (WWOSTII) Uo Yyozeu 02 p4om ,/ 


$ dxq [4k EZ:ET:ST 87/80/S8 O°T A’UUEPTSe1 : 4epesHs 


T ebeg yQueptses/oexe 986T L¥:7Z 


SITJ EpNTOU] eaTAnoexg weyshg BHuyWe10dO WOU -- 


‘psomyozeN-34 GYOMN 


‘{ 


} Juaptsey Aon43s 


H SdSGON DaxXai J PUSH 


ud’ Sepou/oexe,, Spn [OUT # 


H SdGON OdXd JOPUS TH 


$ :AaxD07$ 


2 TO1QUOD BONES 


J eeeeeeRERERUEERUREGTEUUREUEETEESEEUT EET EEU EERE ERT ERTEVERU ERE EEE EUEEYS 


ane ana n ea & 


VRVEEESSEKRESK EERE REE EEK ERTS FE SESE THESES ESTE FETE ESE EE EE TER ELE RE EE 


¥ 


‘our ‘ebTuNy-e10poOUMOD , 


SEPEENVERERESESESUUEUUEUURSEEEUUVUUVESEESERE ER EEE EERSTE EERE EEE EEE / 
H INSGISaY Dax 9 SUutTsopHt 
H INSdGISaed OgxXd 9 JOPUITH 


ANOMSTNO” ®O 


uer 


3 Tpuc# 
yselhtsg du BHsppjpoTus sutjop# 


‘{ 
-sptq ws  dduyom 
fquogisw ws qAogbsp, 2on43s 
} eaoydeusesg 30Nn13s 


J eee eRRRRUEREUUEEUEEEEUEESUUEUEUEEEPEEEUS EEUU EE EE YY @AOYCeUS xveeys/ 


$9 
v9 
£9 
co 
T9 
09 
6S 
8S 
Ls 


A-12 


z ebeg y'squod/oexe 9861 9S:FT T Ady 


/» eyep yseq s0d 

/_» Ksousu pazeoot rte 

/+ Nad Sut33e6 yse} 

/+  fidD Butsot sez 

/s@ + punog seddn yoeq4s 

/* punoq JeMOT 40e AS 

/* Ae\uTod yore Ws 

/+ eyep desaq 03 squtod 

/~ @poo derzq oj squtod 

/+ Spoo Aydeoxe 03 squtTod 
/+ e yep Adeoxe 03 sjuTtod 
/+ petTqeue sdesz3 

/+ peqeootte sdes3 

/» 40} Sydeoxe are TITM om SbTS 
/% PeATeoe1 Saey om SHTS 
/~ 403 BuyAyTem ore om SHTS 
/+ peqeootte shits 

/ Sut seu petqestp se} 
/HutASeu peTqestp 23uT 


SL 

JTPUSH FL 

€L 

(g>>T) SOd-a9IS SUTJep# ZZ 

(%>>T) LIIa aOIS SuTJEpHe TL 

(I>>T) GTIHD aDIS OUTJOpH O74 

(oO>>T)  LaOdW 3DIS SUuTJep# 69 

89 

oon nn neo -  - -  - - -ee sjTeubTS peuTjepeig -----,y/ 19 
99 


9 QaAOWAY SL SUTJEpH S9 

GS  IdaOXT SL SUTJEpH 9 

v LIWM SL SuTJep# €9 

€ AGWaN SL SuTJepHt 79 

z NNa SL SuTJop# 9 

t GaddW SL SUTJep# 09 

0 ITWANISL Sutjep#t 65 

were rrr nnn nnn nn nen en nnn ence nnnnnne= Seqeys Se] -----s/ 8S 
Ls 


z ebeg ysysez/ooxe 9g6T Le:7Z © UeL 


x/ 
+/ 


L HONNWT GL SutsepH 
9 HOLIMS GL SUTJepH 
S LdaDXF GL SuTsopH 
b WHONOWIS GL SuTsJop# 
0 SWILD0dd aL SuTJopH 


s3tq betq ----- / 

“{ 
feqequesf OF ULav 
*Aaququey oj} ASTI yAon4ys 
‘() (youney03) = GIOA 
() (yoataso3%) = IOA 
‘aeddnds-o2s UL 
‘4eMOTGS 93s UldW 
‘BeydS 09 ULdw 
‘epopgdezl™93—s LW 
feqeqdesay93 UWLdV 
‘epopydeoxg 02s LW 
sezeqqydeoxg93s UL dW 
‘etqydeal~o3 = GuOMN 
‘ooTtTwdeay“o3 «© «GYOMN 
‘qydeoxg6Tts~02 = SNOTN 
SpadeYyOTS O32 = ONOTN 
‘qtem6tg-03 = SNOTIN 
‘OOTTWOTS 032 =SNOTN 
7QUD3SONGL 9°32 0=—_s SLA 
SQUD3SENGI 93 2=— ss ALLA 
‘e7e9S°032 «= ALAGN 
‘sbeTy7 03 =©aLAGN 
Sepon O23 SpoN Jon14s 


} AsSeL WONAAS U18ERxXE 


H SLISIT DaxXdi J TPUSH 
yd SISTT/Oexe,, OpnToOuT# 
H SLISIT OdXd JOPUT TH 


H S3GON OdXgei J TPUSH 
yW' Sepou/exe,, SpnTOuT# 
H SAdGON DaXd JOPUs TH 


$ 


: AOHOOTS 


$ dxq [Ae GT: TST 8zZ/80/S8 O'T A’YSHSeQ : 4epesHs 


:TOAQUOD BouNOES 


J eeeeeeRRESUUEREEEERUUEEEUUEEEUUUESEPEUULERERERESEEEUESE RUPEE EUR EE EE YY 


_*x7 a anne 


ERVFLEFVFFECFE VEE F FEF FE LFS FE TEPER FFE E EEE EVE VEE FEEL ESE FEE FETE EVE EY 


¥ 


LTA SpnTour eaTAnoexg weysks Hutyesz8edo WOU -- “OUT ‘ebyuy-e10poumod 


¥ 
EOUVEEERUUUEESESUUUUUEEEEUUVEEUUUEPESEEUUUUVERERDEE EEE E ER EE SEY EEE EEE / 


H SNSWL DsXA 9=PeUuTJOpH 


H SXSWL OaXd 


JOPUZ TH 


ANONGPNOK ODA 


A-13 


T ebeg y'syseq/oox® 986T LH:7Z E UPL 


T€é NOISUAA AMWVAAGIT euTzop# 
d3x0 YSWNELAG SUTJep# 

0 'TINN SUTJOPH 

4) ASTWA SUTJopHt 

T ANAL SuTzopH 

‘IXaL aeyuo peudtsun jopedé 3 

: "100d q4oys jyopedAA 
SINNOON Woys peubtsun jepedAR 
- ZNNOOD quoys jyopedéAA 
:a7TEanod STqnop jepedAA 
‘IWOTA ZeoTJ yepedAA 


/~+ Soyquemes oTsToeds yyTM sodA], »/ 


/+ (aaomn) Aqtauenb 3Tq-9T poubTsun ,/ ‘INOHSN 340ys peubTsun zepedA3 
/+ (aaom) Aatauenb 41q-9T poubts ;/ ‘ LYOHS quoys jepedAy 
/+ (@poo meu ut esn 4,uU0p) :ATUO AQT TTQeqedUIOS 404 y/ 


/~ 4equtod Axouweu eqntosqe ;/ ‘MLdW ULdaLs JepedAR 
/» 4equtod buyays ,/ ‘MLdaLSy zeyo peubtsun jopedAy 


/+ Atvenptatpuy peyetndyuew sqtq g x/ ‘SLIGSLAd eyo peubtsun jzepedAy 

/+ Aqtquenb 3TqQ-g peubtsun ;/ ‘aLAGN aeyo poubtsun jzopedAR 

| /+ Aqtquenb 31qQ-g poubts ,/ ‘SLAG aeyo jepedé; 

/+ Atvenpyatpuy peqetndtuew sqytq 9T x/ ‘SLIGdHOM toys peubtsun zepedéR 
/+ Aqtquenb 3Tq-9T poubTsun ,/ - qgoMmn 4oys peubtsun jzepedA3 

/« Aqtquenb 3TqQ-9T peubts ,/ ‘raIOM quoys jyepedAy 

/+ Atvenptatput peqetndruew sqtq ze x/ ‘SLIGONOT Suort peubtsun yepedé 
/» Aqrquenb 31Tq-ze peubtsun ,/ ‘ONOIN uot peubtsun zepedAy 

/+ Ayyquenb 3TqQ-ze peubts ;/ SONOT Buoy. yepedAR 

/-~ 2284 YA0M 03 Wees Jou soop zepedAQ ;/ PTOA CIOA SUuTzEpH 
/+ 1qeTzea seqystbax (ATInzedoy) e x/ JeqsTheit WFISIOW SuTsop# 
/* PTGETACA OFPEAS TeooT & y/ OF7e9S OIIVIS euTsept 

/~ TeusteqzxXe ue 03 SoUsIOjoOI ,/ U1I93XO TYOdWI SUuTJop# 

/+ Teuszeqxe ue jo esn A1sozereTOep ot x/ UI83X® TWHOTD SuTzop# 


Leeeee RRR PRR EEEENUEEEEERERE ERY EERE UE EESEUN EEE ES ESE ESE EEEEESE EEE ESE YEE 
$ <AeNo07T$ 
¢ Gxq [T4eo LE'EP:LT ST/TT/S8 Z°T A’YSedhQ : 4epeeys 


2 TOAQUOD Bo.1n0S 


“_axnacnnnn & 


EEREREREREEEERE EE REEEREE SER ESEREREEEER EE EEE SEER EERE EEE SEEEEE REPS EEEE EY 
¥ 
SITd Spnpouyr eaTAnoexg weyshg HuTReszedo WOU -- “OUT ‘eHTuy-s10powwoD 


¥ 
OCIA OBGO OOOO IO OOOO Orr es y/ 


stpuct eS 
LS 


z@ ebeg ysedAj/ooxe 9g6T Lb:7Z E€ uUeL 


H SddAL OdXA SUTJOpPH 
H SaddAL OeXa 9 JOPUsTH 


T ebeg ysedAR/oexe O86T L¥:7Z 


ANMOMNAPNHOR DA 


€ 


A-14 


uel 


I Sala Oaxai SOUNg 88 

48 

WANd 98 

(ov) 3TUegOAT- usr S8 
OW LIWdd 8 

€8 

z3 

WONT T8 

(OV) UDISONGL’T#H a‘ Gdav 08 
OUOWN Giguod 64 

8L 

LL 

WONT OL 

QTWISGOAT  aaUX SL 
FOSJJO YUOQISONGL 4A0J ,F°SEseqosxse, Aan IONI s OL 
OWWN SATIGWUSWL €Z 

ZL 

POOP ee RM mee Reem eee em mm meme meter eet meee te meme teen nme e x TL 
x O24 

Ssotsep] UOCTSNTOxY HuyH7sey x 69 

x 89 

aa ata a athe haan ace aciea rae aeaaae eae eaten x 9 
99 

S9 

WONG 19 

Oana €9 

‘O\TIGWNA 729 

eUSQUT “000D0$# M*FAOW T9 
©\aIaWNA $°'39d 09 

(T\) qUD9SeNGI‘T# ‘dans 6S 
T\’h ‘I’ SAW 8s 

aaa TN ONAI LS 


z e6eg T'setqe/oexe Og6T L¥:7Z € UeL 


OdNa 


> O\FIGWNA 
NZINI aI+WIOLaS als eueqUT ‘00000$# M°ZAOW 
O\aTIaVNA. $° sada 
(ov) 3UDASONGI‘T# a’ Gans 
ia a tN oOdI 
[Beyyoqetos] » OWW a IaWNa 


WANA 
DaNa 
(t\) 3UD9SeENCI‘T# a‘ Oday 
NALNI” A+ (WIOLSS AI LON) + eUSIUT ‘O00POS# M'FAOW 


t\’e ‘I'SAOW 
on aTNe ONAI 
Sana 


(ov) QUDISONGI‘T# a‘ Sdav 


NALINI a+ (WIOLAS JAI LON) ¢ eUeIUT ‘000P0S# M* ZSAOW 
ci aE OsdI 
[Boyyoqet0s] y OW aTAWSIa 


S[qeuse/STp AOJ STCULSAXO QDWN SAV INI 


Tl ASWEOIXA OFKAI DUNT 

wk SSeQOoxe/OOxs,, ACNIONI 
TaSWHOaXe OFXA ANAT 

I SadkLDaxai SANA 


w¥  SedhQ/oexe,, JGNIONI 
I’ S3dAL OaXa ANAI 


SSVVFFFFEFSSSSCE SSF EEF VEE SESE EE EEE ELE EFF EFF SSE FEE FF FFF FFE FEF FLEE EYEE Y 
$ 248007$ 

¢ dxqJ T4e> 0€:90:ST 827/80/S8 O'T A’ FT SOTqe : 4epeoHs 

7[TO1QUOD SOIMNOoS 


xz Kcnexnn en eH 


ESFSSFSSSSE ESE EE FEE KE EFF EFS FEE FEF EE FFE EEF SELLE EEE EE EEE EEE TEEPE FEE EEF FF 


¥ 
SlTA epntTouy eaTyAnoexgy weqshs HutTWeszedo WON -- “Our ‘ebTuy-eA0poumIOD 
¥ 


ERPEREEREREEREREEP ERE REE EERE EEE ER ERE EE EEE REE EEE SEE EERE EEL EEE EEE FEF ¥ 
T Las I SaTaWv OdxXa 


I salav Oaxd GNdI 


T a6eg T'setqe/oexs 986T LP:7Z 


ANMYDNOR ODA 


A-15 


ASTT Axscoweu peqdn.s105 
Aserqrt eeu oj Axuoweuw ou 
SMTTez umsyxooeyo Areiqtt 
uUMS)SeUD eseqoexe 


SO00000TS$ Nbe  yAdnz10DURPYW NW 
%00000TSS$ nbe UWeWNATT NW 
€00000TSs$ nb&e  umsxyoatT AV 
Zoo000TSss nbe umgyDeseg NV 


Ce Cqe OQ OD 


UMSNxOSYO A0RDeA UCT AdGeoxXSe 00089 ¢ TO0000TSS$ Nbe  3Oe,qdox” NV 
000000T0$ nbo qt 9Sxa NW 
Axeiqy[*Sexe ------: 


FEV EFF FEF VEE FFE FEF F FEE FFE EFF FFFFE FE FFF ELF FEFFFF FFF FES FELT FEF FFFFFE FYFE 
¥ 
Tw’ (ov) ‘3dnzu0csHey NY LUaIW * 

¥ 
3strT Axoweuw peqdn.ui0cs -- ArTe1qTT Sexe :@TGmexSe 410g 

% 

2S2I8Ty pug-peeq ofzyoeds sg 

§ 

FFF FFT FFF FF FFE FT FFF FFT FFE FFFEFFEFFESFFE FE FEF FEF FEL FE FFE FFL FEL FE FES FFF FEF 


TE0s0000$ Nbe YouemoM”OV 


0€080000$ nbe de.sa3Sg 00g OV 
ZZ080000$ nbe OASYOSTW OW 
TZ080000$ nbO = SAs~pistd OW 
0z7080000$ nbe OASYWID OW 
ST080000$ nbe ASQASUIT LOW 


%T080000$ nbe AeC*ist@ioe4sl Ov 
€T080000$ nbe aaqpseoghey ov 
ZT080000$ Nbe Aaqj4Aogeuresy OW 
TT080000$ nbe aAaqertosucd OV 


OTOS0000$ nbe aagotpny ov 
60080000$ nbe Q¥TUOOT OV 
80080000$ nbe arINWy OW 
L0080000$ nbe atIsod ow 
90080000$ nbe QTIASTIO OW 
S0080000$ nbe arTu3en ow 


700s0000$ nb& uUoTITNAUT OW 
€0080000$ nbeo = aqrysseheT ov 
Z0080000$ nbe qrysotydesg ov 


To0s0000$ nbe QE TOOXA OW 
:Sq0efqo qQueTe ------? 

00009000$ nbe AOANJOT OW 
0000S000$ nbe seyuedg OW 
0000%000$ nbe Aequedg Sy 
0000€000$ nbe qt ued ow 
0000Z000$ nbe qT THEW OW 
0000T000$ nbe A10uSHON OW 

sepood jquete esodimd Teszeueb ------! 


00000000$ nbe Asaa0cexy_ LW 


00000008$ nbe pugpeed IW 

sodAQ quiere ------: 

FFFF FFF FFE SFE FES FLY FEF EEE ELE KEKE ESS EES SSS LF ES EEF FEELS SSS SEE FEF EF 
¥ 

Tw’ (ow) * (aT eWoviarTduedo oyiAeqJeuTL-NW) LUTIW ' 


z aBeg T°sqele/oexe OG6T LG:bT T Ady 


LS 


sArerqr[‘yqeul uedo Jouueo SoTAep’ JouT «6: eT durexe 107 


* 
¥ 
+ 
SSTY pug-peeqd [TeisusO -» 
¥ 
* 


PRFFFFFFFFEFFFFFFFEFEFFESLELELEFEFEETFEFFFF FSF FFFFE FF LEFEFFESEFE REEL Y 


wpuS 
ge/ce/_p’+(ds) [°weaou 
(9e) VSCIVOAT asl 


(;; j;eureu szedoid esn) 9e’% T[*aaocu 


Sang 
ge’z7\ BOT 

oa ’a2\e ONAT 
Le’T\# T° eAour 


(ds) -’9e/ge/_p Tweaou 
(yoqesos ‘Aertyuresed ‘sequmNzerTe)  o10eu 


"MOU JOJ YAOM PTNOYUS 3F ANG JH UOTFWESOCT 
uo Butddeq4s eNTT °° °*uoTAdn.s100 A1ousUl 02 SATRZTSUSS AOA ST II 


IZONYHD AWN OWWN SIHL ‘Werte ue Huysneo 103 o1oeu STYR ESN 


eon aa & 


FEEVEVFFEEEEE EEE SES ERLE LT EEE EEE EE ESV FEEL EEE STEVE EEE ELEN EE EE EEE EEE TEES 


TTe_,eEp S10wl SeZeotpuyT :4A011g OTJTOSedS , 

SeM JO1IO SUR WeUA SeqeoTpuT ATYyHN0’A s4orIg [Tesouey yy 

‘aequmu we yshsqns WOU SezeoTpuy :prsAsqns + 

qeTe pugpeeq :qd ¥ 

¥ 

me fee neem S285 S=sSee==S—= ¥ 
| Ao1ig OFZTOeds weysAgqns Jo1ig Teseuegn | pyrsksqns lal + 
hn eS SS SS 6 8 8 ee Piss 2 9 $95 sse=22= + ¥ 
¥ 

sJEQUMU JOLISO VIETe SQ jo WeULiog , 

¥ 

FFFFFFFFFFFFFEFSFFFFFEFFEEFSEEFFFF FFF FFF ESF SEFEFE FEE FESR FEF EFE LE FEE EF TY 


sHelgskg esegooxg UF » T’NOWMLUAIV’S 4JaCLId 
FSRFFFFFFFFFFFSFFEEFFFFFFFFFFFFEEFFFFFEFEFFFFEFE FF FFFEEFEFFEFFRFEE FEE ERE FY 
$ :408x907$ 

$ dxq [Taeo ESg:S0:ST 8z/80/S8 O°T A’F°SZIETe :s9Spesys 

$[TOAQUOD SOuMeS 


eanane ana 


SERERRREREEEEE REESE EERE ERS EREREEEEE EEE EEE SEES EERE EERE SESE EEE EE EET SEY 
¥ 
@-- ‘Our “ebTuNy-S1CpoUIOZ) , 
¥ 
ERERESSERTESESEVESVEEEEETETELES TEES EF EFEEE TEE SEE FEE E TEETER TVET EY 
T LaS I SLYaIW OdXT 

IT SLYaTV OaxXa ANSI 


SlTdA SpnTou, eATAnoexg weqysihs Hut We1z68edo WO 


A - 16 


ry eed F°SqVelte/oexe OSGI LS:PI T Ady 


10128 ASTP £ WO0000LOS Nbe s021pISTC NW S9T 
uMSxHOeY PTTeAuy £ 600000L0$ nbe ums>~ppeg NW ZL9OT 
eeiz Apeoute Asx ¢ 9§00000L0$ nbo seizkoy Ny 99T 

qdnaizoo deuntq * £00000L0$ nbe depntd NW S9T 
4Jo.ize eouenbes xo0Tq STP ‘ 900000L0$ nbe besirayista Ny v9T 
PeTTey CeAee1Z / $00000L0$ nbo O@ASCAT NW €9T 
PeATeoe1 Qerxoed pejoedxeun ‘ %00000L0$ nbe PidouAsyNW Z9T 


A-17 


I SLaaIW Osxai SUNa L1Z emMTFes VIG - €00000L0$ nbe [tesvidO NW TOT 

91z 3,UPTP »ASelpuq ¢ 7Z00000L0$ nbe AseLpuy NW 09T 

ooo000TEs Nbe = Yous@{IOMNY STZ dnzzeys ze Aiowsul ou ‘ TOQOOTOLOS nbo weynsteIS "NY 6ST 

YOUSCPIAOM ------! IZ 000000L0$ nbe QFISOD NW 8ST 

€1Z Axeaqyt sop ------/ L¢T 

JO149 ue peuinjet poo Joog ‘ T000000E$ Nbe 4011FI0OG NY ZTZ 9ST 
Co00000E$ Nbe desysjoo_ NY ITZ 00000090$ nb> Ss qr AST NW SST 

de138}00q ------: oTz ALeAQTT*YSFIO ------! OST 

602 €ST 

o00000zz$ nbe = OuSHOSTW NY 807 000000S0$ nbe ArTUEW NY ST 

SOMOSOL*OSTUl ------° L0Z ArseACFT "YEU ------: TST 

902 OST 

3yuMN GATQOe ou :AdniteqUT ¢ 700000TZ$ Nbe JOWONIUTUC NW S0Z SOFASp STOSUCS eq} Uedo 3,Up—TNOD ! 300000%eS Nbe STOSUCDONNW 6bT 
3stp sey Apeoate :4yun 38H : ToQ0000TZS Nb® rASTASeEHAT NW ¥0Z uoTsueye.iduioouy Huysnes oye pAjem / 3700000ve$ Nbe ocUoc_paTem NW 8sPT 
Qo0000TZS MO == SuSWISTC NY €0Z dwodaI Aq peatece.: ebesseul peq ‘ qoo000pes nbe sbhesseypeg Ny LPT 

SOMOSA*HSTP ------: Z0Z UOFRTNAU] Huy4seque uUmMJe1 eReERS peq ‘ Dood00Pes NbO  es7eASpeg NW YT 

T0z Asousu ou ‘mopuym uedo { go00TOPss Nbe sMopuTMUeEdO NY SPT 

0000000z$ nbo O4ASUWID NW 002 Axowsur ou ‘sqzeHpe5 ms ppe * woooTores nbe AeHpequsppw NW PhT 

SOMOSEA’ SFO ------! 66T edkq umouwjun ‘ueeszos sks uedo ‘ 600000bes nbe edAéz~usosshg NY EFT 

86T Ascwusul ou ‘OoTTe Jweq_sei ‘usei1os uedo * gn00TOPEss nbe AseyusosuedO NY ZT 

qsenbex peq ‘ T00Q00STS Nbe beypeqnnoNw JL6T Axsowsul ou ‘useios uedo ¢ L000TOPE$ nbe uee1osuedQ NW THT 
C00000STS NbO aAaquowTy "NY 96T O4eZTSeY > doz xoq wet * 900000P8S Nbe dorxogue7I-NY OFT 

SOTASp' IOUT. ------! S6T Aiousul ou ‘ooTTe euetd ¢ soooTOPes Nbe® SOTTWEUeTA NW 6€T 

v6T Axsousl ou ‘DoTTe qns * POOOTOPOS Nb®  cOTIVaNS NW BET 

{Tem sowyTA uo 40.1% :AeTep { 700000BTS nbe Kelaqql NW €6T Axsowsur ou ‘ooTTe euetd wey / EN00TOPOS Nbe SOTTWRITNY LET 
AOLIO HSCS :O7eAATTeEO / T0OO00BTS Nbe ASesaqTTIesdL NW Z6T Axousul ou ‘j4od azee19 ¢ Z000TOPSS Nbe JuogejzeerD NY SET 
000000bTS nbe ASMISTMPeAL NY TET edkyijebpedg Ny jo wioy Axeaccso ¢ T[090000h0$ nbe  yebpeqpeg Nw SET 

SOTASP* ASTpoeAQ ------! O6T edA3 3epe6 umowjun ¢ T[00000%8$ nbe edArAebpen Nw PET 

68T 000000%0$ nbe uot z_NWQUI| NW €€T 

000000ETS nbe Aeapze0ghey NY Sst ArxeAGTT *UoFZPNAUT ------: ZeT 

eoTAep: pseoqhey ------: LET Tet 

9st 000000€0$ nbo qrIsszekeT NW OeT 

000000ZTS Nbe Asqziogeureg "NY SBT AxeaqyT *saeket ------! 6ZT 

SoTAep’ AiodeweH ------! PET 82T 

€8T Asomsu ou ‘dewataita ‘ woootozes nbo dewnatg3Ig NW ZT 

QO0000TTS Nbe AaqeTosuCyNY Z8T seyduy, 103 Aioweul ou ‘9x83 / 6000T0ZO$ Nbe seyduyAxeL NY 92T 

SOTASEP’STOSuoD ------! TST Arousal OU ‘TTTZ Poots * goooTOzTss Nbe IItaAPOOTT NW SZT 

OST Axsousul ou ‘eurexy Quoys ¢ Lo00TOZSS Nbe surerqq40"US NY ZT 

0000000TS nbe ASCOTPMY NY 6LT Axsoweu ou ‘eureay Huot * g9000TOZTSS Nbe eurerzHucT NW €7ZT 

SoTAepotpne ------: SLT Arsousul ou ‘peey yst{ seddoo - goo0Tozes nbo peem4styidop Ny ZZT 

LLT PEOCTASAO ASTI SVeTpoutejuT seddoo ‘ H00000ZES$ Nbe 4zeAOQASTTIGOD NY T2ZT 

000000608 nbo QyTUOOT NW 9ZT peoT4ero AsSTT 4teddoo ¢ €00000z78$ nbe seADASTIdGOD NW 0ZT 

Axesaqy[*uooF ------: SLT Asowsul ou “ASFT uoTRONAAQsuF seddoo * zZoooTOzTS$ Nbeo  aqsurdoD NY 6IT 

BLT Asousu ou ‘AstT Aetdstp ueddoo : Too00TOzZe$ nbe Aertdstqdoo Ny sTT 

00000080¢ nboe ATTA NY ELT 000000z0$ nbe qr Isotydes | NW LTT 

AxeraqrtqyTwes ------! ZLT Axerqyt sopydes6 ------: OTT 

TLT STT 

Kej2z2ao peq ? 900000L0$ nbe AeTsz9aQped NW OLT eoinos Yldw ue Jo ()AonaASATUI ¢ L00000TES Nbe AWWWATUT NY PIT 

ebuer jo yno Aa ? g00000L0s nbe ebueydey NY 69T suemies ydnistequy 103 Axoweuwl ou * 900000TS$ nbo WoWAQUI- NW ETT 


y eHeg T°’squeTte/oexe 9861 LS:bT T ady ¢ ebeg Fsquere/ooxe Og6T LS:PT T Ady 


I saowdd OaXaI SGNT 
bit HAONSY » ‘TIWANSdO WasOI NO AOIAZGNAdO waa 


yqyGuet prrTeA © Jou yy F%- NOd HIONTIGWY wo! 
pequoddns Jou puemo> y €- NOA GNOON wasOrI 
peqioge ysenbeu , Z- nod aazLNOaW wwgOI 

uedo 02 peltey Qyun/eotAep » T- Ndd TIVANddO wsdl 


:SAOAIA OI paepuejsg ------ ¥ 

FFF FEFFE FFF FFE FFFFFFFFFEFFFEFFFF FSF EFEF FS TEL EEFEFT FEEL FEF EFFECTS FFE F YF HH 
¥ 

$ :8END0TS 

, ¥ 

& xg Tse 97:40:ST 82/80/SB OT A’T'SHO1IS :4EpeCHS 

x 

:TOAQUOD BOMOG sy 

¥ 

FSFELEPERT SESS E ELSE SEES SE SESE SESE ETE EPR LEER PE LEER EERE EYE 
. y 

Sita Spntouy eaTancexg weqshs HuTQesedo WOY -- ‘Our ‘“eOTUIy-Su0poUIOD x 
¥ 


FEPEEEEREVEA STEELE TEE EEEEEEEEE EERE EERE TEESE ESSELTE TE EEE YE EEE EEE EF ¥ 
T Las I saoddd OgXxa 


I sdoued OaxXa GNAI 


T eg ¥°s10110/00xd O86T LP:7Z E ueL 


ANONGNOKR AA 


IT SaDIAad OgxXat SONA 


T’MSWINI’LINN JgGLId 
O’SAILOW’ LINN aaGLId 


SSR S,4JeATsp ut Huyuuns , 
SATIOR ST ASCATUP 


:SUOFRTUTJOP OWT LINN ------ * 


aZIS LINN ‘TsaW 
INDON3IdO LINN  Gaomn 
ped LINN aLAGN 
SOWIT LINN a@LAGN 


sqsonbe1 10j enenb , aZIS dW’LINN ganionars 


azIs qq ‘Taw! 
aZIS @I1’dd dYNLONLs 


AxreACTT OF TEOTQUSPT 


Tl SLYOd O3xXat SANA 

ut SPod/oexe,, AGNTIONI 

I SLYOd Dexa GNAI 

I SaIuWwaaIT OgxXai DONd 

a} SOpsAesqy[/oexe,, AGNTIONI 

I Salawad1T Ogxgd GNAI 

FSS SSE EF EE EE EEE EES EEE EEE EE EE KEL EEE EL EL EL EL EK EE SEE KE FEE FE LES EEE EY 
$ :4eHo07$ 

$ Gxd T4eO Z0:140:ST 87/80/S8 O'T A’ T° SSOTASP : tepeeps 


2 [O1QU0D Bo.M0S 


anaxnack & 


FRRERER EERE ESE RE REE ES EERE REE E EEE EEE EEE EEE EE EERE EEE SEE EEN EEE EEE 
¥ 
CLITA SpN[OUL SATANoexg weqshks HutAeszedo WON -- ‘our ‘eHTwy-ae10cpoumon , 
¥ 
FEES ESTE EES ETE TEE ESET ELE ELE LF EEE ESE FEF FESS FSF FE FE FFF FFE FSCS EVES FF RF 
T LaS I SADIARId DaXa 

T SSOIASC OSX ANAI 


ANMNGNOR ODA 


A- 18 


T eeg T°seotaap/oexe 986T L277 € UeL 


jeubtsee1g JaCONNA 9S 
TeubTSoolty agGONNd SS 
jeubtsg JgaGONNA vS 
3FeM J3aGONNA €S 
3deoxg3eS JFGONNA zs 
Teubtsies agGONNd TS 
FAdIseLIeS aFTGONNA oS 
ASeLPUTA agTGONNd 60 
yseluey ggGONNd SP 
ASeLPPY aAZGONNA Ly 
eweNputy JgaGONNa oF 
enenbug JggdONnd Sv 
Itelwey agyGONNd ty 
peoqwey gJgGONNa ey 
Saouey = AFTGONNA tp 
TTeLPPW agaGONNA Ty 
peoyppy JgGONNa 0% 
qesul ggaGONNd 6€ 
Asqugecesq gJaGONNA Se 
Asqugooltw ggaGONnd Le 
WOWTTeAY JSIGONNA 9¢ 
WweWeet1g gJgCONNd se 
SQYOOTTW JdadONNg vE 
WEWOOTTW agaGONNA €€ 
eqecoTteeq JgyGONNA ze 
SCOTTY ATCGONNA Te 
esnep agGONNA o€ 
Jemiegquyuey gagdoNnnd 62 
Jeasegqulppy agdoONnd. 8z 
J0_OeAIUTAeS gFaGONNA LZ 
e7eI4S4eSn aAFGONNA 92 
eqeqsuedng gagadoNna SZ 
wsaes agGONnd bz 
3Tuuieg agaGONNd €Z 
PTqt0q agGONnd zz 
etqeug JadONnd TZ 
erqestqd aJgGONNa 0z 
Bnqeq agadoONnd 6T 
Welty aJaGONNA ST 
qUepTseyITUI agGONNd LT 
queptTseyputy agdoNnd OT 
suotjounjereW = AIGONNA ST 
Axesqy¢y Teen agqonna vT 
QOnaAASATUL =gFaGONNA €T 
@popjztul gFaGONNnd ZT 
uot}deoxg gagyGONNd TT 
yozedstq J3gdGONnNd OT 
yoqtasg aadONnd 6 
e[npeyosey JgaGONNd 8 
etnpeys JaGONNd L 
AQUIATXY JIGONNA 9 
Jostasedng aadoONnd S 
XTIWDIIWNOLNY LIING ATIA :LIGA ION OG eve B 
$ Gxgq [4e9 £4h:60:8T 80/0T/S8 G°Z A’ TW QTT-ueb :41EpeoHs yyy € 
S86T 98:0S:9T ZT AON ONE UO pozessuEed OTTJ STUL vey Z 
‘our “ebTUy-SAOpOUMOD yyy T 


T a6eg F°QrT oexe/oexe 986T Lb:77 E UeL 


A-19 


uF OF/OSXS,, AGN TONI 

ut SSOTASp/OSxe,, AGNTIONI 
ut SeTsaeaqt yt /oexe,, JGNTIONI 
wt Sse /ooxe,, FGNTONI 

wre sq10d/oexe,, AGNIONI 

wt Asoursu/ooxa,, AGNTIONI 

ut Sqdns1eqUuT/oexe,, AGNTIONI 
ut S3ISTT/OSxe,, AGNIONI 

uf sepou/oexe,, FCN TONI 


ANNO oe 
WM WOE DONS of 


t obeq F:oexe/oexe O86T LB:'7Z7Z E UeL 


aZIS AI ’LNILAOSAI LONALS 9S 
3ZIS AI’ NIGNSAGAI LONALS SS 
aZIS AI’ 3aLAI LONULS wS 
SRZOSAQUT §‘TIEWI es 
Zs 
PVECCEVELEEEREREELERTS TSE E PETES SEVERE EE EY POQETOY Adnz19QUI geveesy TS 
0S 
67 
eaoge eyy JO [Te Aoz : mom dim SP 
Lv 
peaseser / AXAPASY WLidv oF 
quouHes elep queTte ¢ e7eqqeTW ULdv 5 
queufes ejep sebbngep TeqoTb ‘ eqeghnqeq ULdv by 
qutod Aaque sebhngep TeqoTb : Axjugbhnqed Ld ey 
xeu A1ouwsul [BOOT peVe[NolTeo AseT : WepooTXeyy ONOTN cv 
(punoq szeMoT) oeAs weqsks Jo doq : Jeaopassks uldv Tv 
(punoq seddn) sseq xoeq3s weqshs ¢ seddpasshs wLdav 0” 
4O}09A Gungdes Ajos wiem / eamnqdeyuiem =ULdW 6€ 
AOROSA Sunqdes AOS [ooo ? emydertoo) ULdW ge 
A0RO0A BiNnqAdeo AjJos pToo ? SANAGeDPIOD YALdW Le 
QueweTduoS uequTod eseq ue sks ¢ eSe—EYlD ONOIN o¢ 
SA0R00A destQ 00089 JO uMsxOeYO ¢ UMSHIOUS_MOT CYyOM se 
Jequmu esee[eir Are_syoTH : JOAI30S GYOMN ve 
e€€ 
epou AxeraqT{T paepueqys : aZIS gIT’esegoouxg AINIONUIS ZE 
Te 
VEREEEREEETEESEERPESE VERE SESE EE EEEEEZE SOTCETICA WEASAS OTIEAS vevseve OC 
62 
_ 82 
I SSIMWaSIT OdXa SCNT 42 
ut Sefsesqy[/oexe,, AGN TIONI 92 
I SaIawudIT O3Xa ANAI Sz 
v2 
I SIdNYaaINI DaxXai SANA €Z2 
ut Sqdnszequy/oexe,, FAN IONI zz 
I SLANYYSINI O3xXa ANII TZ 
02 
I SISIT O3Xai SANA 6T 
ut S4STT/0exe,, FAN IONI ST 
I SLISIT Oaxa ANAI LT 
oT 
EREVEVELETESESESEEEEERVEELEEEESEVEVEVERE SEE SE SEVERE EEE EEE EE EEES ST 
s OT 
$ [TaeO :ABHYOOTS xy ET 
x eT 
$ Gxq TAeD TS: 0T:9T ZT/TT/SE T°T A’F°eseqoexe -40pecHs » IT 
x OT 
>TOAQUOD BOANOG ys 6 
s 8 
SRELEVEVECEETEFESEVEFETELEE FEE VELESERESTEFE SESE EERE ETE REEEEEEEsEseses L 
xs 9 
SiTgI Epnpouyr eaTynoexg we sks HuyVesedo WOU -- “Our ‘eHTuly-s10poumOD y ¢ 
s BD 
PEREEFESEERE ET ESEVERTESELESESEVEETESESESEEFESESEVEVEVEEVE DE EEE E¥EYE CE 
T LaS I aASWHOAXY DaAXA 2 
I g3SweoaxXe axa ANAI T 


T eeg F°eseqoexe/oexe 9961 LG:bI T Ady 


Aseiqr quedo 
aeEOeA 
@Moo1g 

wey OedAy, 
20329 
quigoqney 
ACYDINGaey 
aeyn epAepney 
YFUIOINEY 
eo.noseyuedg 
So.NOsewey 
So.noseyppy 
OIqt0qy 
OI3TeEM 
OLPioeuD 
OIPUsS 

OI°d 
SOTASQSSOTO 
SOT AequedyO 
SOT ASQURY 
SOTASQPPY 
Axsesqtyums 
UOTIOUNIIOS 
Axsesiqr Jeso[D 
AseiqyTuedopto 
Axserqr uey 
Aserqy Tppy 
qogput ¥ 

FAO GIT eM 
BsyAT doy 
Bsp32D 
Bsyang 

FO que Y 
A0gppy 


deszysesaz . 


deszlLoot ty 


A - 20 


z eed Fat cexe/oexe O86T LZB¥:7Z E ueL 


aZISASVWESAS Tadv I 


OIT 
Oxh ‘PeAtesoyosegooxd ONOT 60T 
S0T 
beh’ WOTWASeT IONULS LOT 
90T 
SsdZIS HS’SQUIQZOS §=6LONUIS SOT 
vOT 
AZIS HT’3tTemisel LoNUls €0T 
aZIS H1’ApeeypiseL LONULs ZOT 
AZIS H1‘3StTH40gd «=6LoNULS TOT 
AZIS H1I‘3STIAFI =©LONALS 00T 
AZIS HI‘3STIA3UI «= LONULS 66 
AZIS H1‘3StTOoFAed =xLoNULs 86 
AZIS HI’3STTecmnosey  LONULS L6 
aZIS H1‘3STTON = LONULS 96 
S6 
SRSVVEVEVH ESSERE SESE T ESTES Eee ee eesesyy SAOPCOH IST] WOISAS yesessy 06 
€6 
26 
yseu de1zj pezecotteeid / sortydeszpiseL qaomn T6 
yseu Teubys pezecoTTeeid * = = sol TwOTSseL ONOTN 06 
poo 3TxXe Hse} W[Nejop ! SpoogjqTxgIseL ULdW 68 
@poo uoTAdeoxe ysezZ AINejep * espoojdeoxgy7sel UldV se 
Sup {nor derzq yseZ ZINeJap : epopdeszpyjseL WLdW L8 
98 
Aeixze @[Npou queptse.1z 03 sequTod ‘ SOTNPoWsey wLdW sooo 
uofTjue ze Burp—tnpeyoses ¢ peyoseyuaqw dyoMn ve N 
sHeTj uofzquezze Tepoeds : sHeTquj3w aaomn €8 
z8 
qunoo Huy seu eTqestp xse3 ¢ QUDISCNGL ALAA Ts < 
unos Buyyseu eTqestp ydnas8quy ¢ QUDISONGI FLAG 08 
sHeTz weqshs ost : sSetasAs daomn 6L 
SOT} umquenb Questind ¢ pesdetg qdyomn SL 
umjuenb SoTTs aut ° umquend dyOMn LL 
aequn0S yozedsTp ¢ qunopgdstqd ONOTA 9L 
ASAUNODS STPT ° SUNODETPI DNOTMN SL 
4SeZ QuetmMd 03 sequTod ‘ ASCLSTUL ULdv tL 


PREEEVFEFSEFEFSSESE ERSTE EEE Reese SOTAUEFACA wo sks ofureuAg yeyee¥e ZL 


TL 
OL 

AZIS AI’IWNAI JoONUuIs 69 

AZIS AI‘NSINIAI Zonas 89 

-SZIS AI’‘USIXSAI LONaLS 49 

AZIS AL‘ONXASNSGAI LONUls 99 

AZIS Al’ aaYAI LONaIs S9 

Y aSWaoaxXe OAXai SUNT OzT AZIS AI’ECGNWAI JONAS v9 

@2eY HOOTD 6 nOtl -ZHOS GaW 6IT AZIS-AI’ZGNWAI JONAS €9 

OSIN/Twd 8 ndd WWd daW 8tIt AZIS AI’‘TGNWAI JONUaLs z9 

v NnOl Teeso daw LIT AZIS AI‘OGNWAI JONaLs T9 

T NOI o07089 Gav OTT AZIS AI’LITAAI JLONXLS 09 

(TT@eK se 07089 AOJ QOS UFeEUSI IITA) 0 #£Nda OT089 GaW STT AZIS Al’G@LUAAAI JONAS 6S 
:S1t0ssecoid-op pue S10SseD0ig ,y PIT AZIS AI’WaAdOOAI JLONUIS 8S 

SHETIURAWW sy¥zseee ETT AZIS AL’SLYOdAI JONUIS LS 


€ ebeg F°eseqoexe/oexe O86T LS:bT T Ady 


z ebeg T° eseqoexe/oexe 986T LS:bT T udy 


(3334099 (z\) ) Mod 
(33089 (9T<<(z\))) q@‘od 
0D0$i0\qdnD q@°od 

DANA 

LIXaW 
z7\ = ad 
08$i (®\dNd) g°od 


ssz- (z\) aTII 


(®@\INNODi (b>> (T\))) Las O\ao 
Sang 
aN Las ®\INNOO 
ran AY ONSII 
Dana 
0 Las ®\LNNOO 
a iw\, O4dI 
0 mM‘Sd 
QUNODP ‘ONTeAP’ASSTJOP’OZTSP y OWN JLONULSLINI 
WONd 
z\ T°Od 
™T™ Mm'od 
0 q‘od 
0°$ g‘od 
ONTCAP’ASSJJOV y OWW ONOTLINI 
WANA 
Z\ Mod 
T\ 8 M‘Od 
0 q°od 
ops q°od 
ONTCAP’ROSJJOV y OYWW CaOMLINI 
WONa 
0 q°od 
Z\ q°od 
™T™\ M‘Od 
0 q'od 
02=$ q°od 
ONTCAP’ROSTJOV » OYWW ALAGLINI 
EFEFEE ERE EE EERE EE EE EEE ERTS REET EEE EE EEE EE LEE EEE RE EEE EEE SESE ERE REESE EY 
¥ 
$ :4dexo0ys 
. ¥ 
$ dxq Tae 67:60:ST 87/80/S8 O°T A’ T° SAOZTTETATUT ssepeoys 
¥ 
2 TOAQUOZD 2S0ANO0S ¥ 
¥ 


FREE EEEEET ET EEE SESE FEE EF ESE ELE EEE EEE EEE EE EEE SESE EEE EL ERE EF ELE ELE KEKE 


¥ 
©ITqd Spnqtoul SATANoexy uweqyshks BHutTAeszsedo WOY -- “Our ‘eHTuy-S1CpOUMIOD , 
¥ 


FEES ETE E FEET EE FET EET EEE ET EF EE EEF EFT EEE EERE EEL EEE LEEK EKER EEE ET EVEL EE ELE 


T LAS I SHaZITWILINI OaXgd 
I SYaZITWILINI OaxXa GNII 


T seg F°SszszT[eTATUT/Oexe OGET LY:72Z 


ANOMDNHOR OO 


IT SNWNOEXA OdXSaI SANA 


wpuS 
Q A’SP 
Q’ ,AwesqT{*9exe, q’op 
o10eul AWWNOAXA 
"OUT “eDTUIY-SA0pOoUNIOD x 
T 13S I SWWNOSXeT OaXA 
I ANWNOAXeA OaXA ANAL 


et 


ANMNAPNOLK DAS 


A- 22 


T eg F-sureusexe/osexe 986T LP:7Z © ueL 


€T’INIS’S 4daGLIa SS 
peyoset O23 swt} -- pepuedxe umjuenb ourry , tI’SOL’S JaGLId tS 
peatnbes uotquezye Huy[npeyos ST’UWS’S JJAGLId €s 
zs 
( sbetgsks°esegsAs ut) s3tq Hetq weqshg ------ + 1S 
0S 
60 
AZIS AL ‘TaavI Sv 
AGON AI aLdv Lv 
aqqoD AI ULdW oF 
Wivd AI ULdw SP 
O’AI FANLIONMIS FP 
ev 
ee enn eee een rerre 3s 2D 
xy TD 
SAOQOSA Adnawse_UI TeU4eqUI COX » OF 
x 6€ 
ee tenner esos srre- x 8E 
Le 
9c 
aZIS SI ‘TsavI se 
adoD SI aLdW bE 
WIWd SI aLdaw €€ 
AZIS NI‘SI gantonais ce 
Te 
a ee eee een ners eee rrr- x O€ 
x 62 
emjoni4s ydnasejul xy =8Z a 
x L2 8 
eee eee enn nee e scenes ere- x 92 
Sz < 
bz 
I-SISIT O3axai SUNa €Z 
ut S3ISTT/OOxe,, AGNIONI zz 
I SISIT Daxgd ANAI TZ 
02 
I-SAGON axa SdNa 6T 
ut’ Sepou/oexe,, FGNTONI ST 
I SSGON O5xXa GNAI LT 
oT 
FREESE P EEE EEE EE ELE EL SEL LEE LEE EEF SLES LEFEFLEELELF FSFE FEE FFL FEF FFE FEF REF ST 
x OT 
§$ :4exO0T$ », ET 
s 2@T 
$ dxqJ [4eO OT: OT:ST 8z/80/Se O'T A’F°SadnseqUT :4epeeHs , TT 
x OT 
:TOAQUOD SOmNOG =x 6 
x 8 
FSFFVEFEC ESE FES EEL EEC ESSE ETE ELLE LE FEF AV FFE FF FEF FEF FEL EFEVE LEFF PE FRYE 4 
s 9 
SltqA SPNTOUI SATQNOSXY we jsks Hut Qeszedo WOW -- °oul “ebTuly-SrA0pounIOZ) g S 
xs DV 
FSSFFEF EEE TP EF EVES E KLEE FET EEE FFE FEF FE LEFF FFE EEK FF EEL SET TEES HELE FEE EH € I SaaZITWILINI Oaxai OCNA 6S 
IT LIS I SIdNMNFLNI OFXA Z 8S 
I SLdNYaaINI O3Xa ANAI T WONG LS 


T ebeg F°sqdnzsequyt/oexe OS6T LP:7Z € ueL z ebeg F°SszezpTepapur/oexe 986T LP:7Z € ueLr 


AtxOTNb OI SAS TAMoo 0’MOING’OI asAaCLIA 9S 


ss 

:SUOFITUTJEP AA SOWIT OI ------ x vS 
€s 

cs 

aZIS GLSOI ‘TaaVI TS 


zagAwasae OL ONOIN + OS 
TagAussay Ol ONOIN + 67 


SeotTasep Huy7HSes ACJ YOSJJO x LgSadO OI NON SY 
were eQep 09 AequTOd , WiIwd OI ULdV LY 
peseysuesy sozhq jo # po senbo , HIONST OI SNOTN oF 
peseysuery soqhq jo # Ten}oe , Twnlow OI SONOTN Sv 
bY 
sUoTSUeAxXe Asonbet OI pszepuejs ------ s €0 
2v 
Ty 
AZIS Ol ‘TsaWI 0v 
@poo HuTusen 1O AOLIO x wom OI ALAG 6¢ 
sSetj TejToods x SOWIT OI 4gJ.AGN se 
PUCWIOD SOTASP x GNYWNOD OI daomn Le 
(eqeatad szeaTap) ATun LINN OL ULldV 9¢ 
Je utod spou SotAep , ADIAIC OI ULdW ce 
AZIS NW’‘OI gduNLONUIS vE 
€€ 
s3Ssenbe1 OJ JO uoTq40d peutnbey ------ x ze 
Te 
Ow ww wn nw ww em ww ww wn we www mm mm ee ener enero ores ren- x O€ 
¥ 62 
seimjoniys ysonbey OI + 82 
x 2 
meme eww www www mm mew nw non ew nm me mmm mm mee eee nen nee sercoreeesr= x 92 
Sz 
bz 
I SIINWUEIT OFXAi DANA €Z 
ut’ SeTjzeaqt[/oexe,, AGNIONI zz 
I SaIMWaaIT OSXA GNAI TZ 
0z 
I-SLYOd Daxdi SNF 6T 
ut Sq40d/sexe,, JANTIONI ST 
I SLYOd Dax ANAI LT 
oT 
FEFFVFFFFFEF LEFF FFE FEE FF EF EF FEFF FFE FFFEFFFY EFF FFEFFFEFEFEFFFF FF FFF FEF FEY ST 
« UT 
$ :aeH00T$ » ET 
s cT 
$ Gxq [T4eO EF:0T:ST 8Z/80/S8 O°T A’F'OF :4opeaHs , TT 
xs OT 
2 TOAQUOD SoANnoSs ¥ 6 
s 8 
FEFFFFEF EFF F FEF ELE FE FF FSFF FE FEF FFF EFE FF FFE FEFFEFTFFEFELE FEEL EFEF EF EF ETF L 
x 9 
Sta SPN [OUI SATIANOSXY we sks But ye1edg WOU -- *Ouy : ebTuly-S10poumlos) ¥ S 
s Y 
FEFSFF EEF EEF EFF EF FEF FEF FE LE FFE FEL FE FF FFEFF EF FEF FFF FEFEF FEV EFF EEE EY Y € 
I laS TOI oaxa 2 
IOI Dgaxd ANII T 


T e6eg F'oT/oexe 986T BS:bT T Ady 


A - 24 


I SEdNYSSINT OXI OGNT TL 


S$ nOz sananoO HIS 69 
030$ NOX XNSWIUd HIS 89 


aZIS HS) ‘TdaWI 99 


Gvd HS ddaomn s9 
aZIS HI°HS @aNLonals 9 


z eg T°sqdnszsequy/oexe® 986T LP:7Z € UeL 


PUCUMUODS PTTCAUT x» GITVANI GW) diWDAgad ZTTt 
0 LINIASG OTT. 
:SpUCEURIOD SOTASP pAepueqjs ------ x 80T 


WONT SOT 

T+INNOO GWO IagS LINNOO GH) POT 
INNOO GWO nda T\ €0T 
eureupw> y OW GDA zot 


WANA O0T 

SaNz 66 

T\ IgS INNOO GD 86 

“i aN ONaI L6 

Sana 96 

GISNON CWO IaS INNM0D GW Ss6 
ca vd OdI v6 
[3esz3z0eseq] » ODWW LINIASG €6 
:O1DCUL UOFAFUTJOp pueumMloD ------ + 2 


On iw nee eee ee esrsccrn= x 06 
x 68 

SUOTITUTJOd PueUMICD SOTAS” PArepueySs ¥ 88 

x 8 

PRS SS SasmSs Se - Sse a Se anes SaaS ee ase ar asso ee ses ate sees e ro esse x 98 


WANZ €8 
(TW) SOIAAC OL ‘OILNOGW AAC AITDINIT z8 
OWOWN OLLuoCaW 18 


& 
A - 25 


WANG 6L 
(Tw) SOIAAI OL ‘OINIOSA AA AITINIT SL 
OuOWN OINIOSA LL 


s tL 

sosse,R] UOTQOUNYT OL x €2 

x CL 

I OF OaxXgi SGN L2T eee mmm mmm meme nnn meee w ee meee eee mewn ee meen nn nn eee eoesnreen= s Th 


GISNON GND dWDAgG SzT 69 
¥2T qysenbeit OF W40Ge , OILNOaW ASG sadaIT 89 
ZONTCA PUCUMIOD SOTASP PrepueAsuoU ASAT J ------ x €2T qsenbei OF sseooid OINIOSd ASG JaGGIT 49 


T2T LINIGIT S9 

enenb SitTWUe V100e , HSNTZ GND GWOAIG OzT %9 
dojs seRje VieEASeU , Luvis dw GWDAsd 6TT 0 it ween neon neon no oo nnn nee nn nnn nee n eee » €9 
penenb pue que.uN> ploy dOLs” ano 
SAVJJING TTS ACS[S x WaT GD dDAA LTT suotTjouny Axzeaqy'] SoTAeg pszepueqG yy 19 
SABJJNQ [TS YO SQTUM , aLWddN GW GWOAgG OIT x 09 
@{TAM psepuejs ALIUM GW dWOAad SIT “i i (ii wee eee nn ne ene enn ee ne nn oo enn nn enn nen eee ee » 6S 

pees psepuejs away GND dWOAgaG IT 8S 

peqtuy asnf JF se Aese , Lasay GW dywoAdd €TT LS 


B 
© 
et 
eo 
* 
N 
wo 


€ obeg F°OT/oexe 9861 BS:FT T Ady g ebeg T'OT/Oex® OMET BS:PT T Ady 


WONT 
(ow) T\ ase 
SUNa 
bij Squeumb.1e Aueul 003 - QWW GITTINO Iti TIwa 
T-OUWN IOII 
WeSJJQUOCTIOUNJ y OWW 
:qoe1100 Apeoire ST gy SueYyM SUOT}OUNZ HuTTTeO 403 GITTIWO ------ 


efundxe peoAelep €’dXaTS0’GIT saCLId 


@ITTIWO 


¥ 

uMS 03 ASAIO PTNoOYS OM JT ASS x Z@’CaSNWNS’aIT JdaaLId 

ATT euQ pebueyo ysnf oaey Om -y T’G3ONVHD ‘EIT JaGLid 

BHhuyuumsoeyo ATRUSLINO Sie OM O’ONIWNNS ‘GIT JaGLI 
sSUOFATFUTJEpP AQ SOWIA GIT ------ 

. 3ZIS GII ‘Tsavi 

suedo que.1imdS jo uequmu , ZNONAdO GIT dadaomn 

JIESIT uMSpeYO oUQ WNS €IT SONOTN 

UOTIEOTJTAUSPT ONTSLSAT AIT WLdWv 

AOUTU x NOISIAdY GIT daamn 

Aofeu NOISUSA GIT daomn 

GIT saeqzge soqkq jo uequmu , SZISSOd GIT daomn 

GIT e10ojeq seqAq jo uequmu , HZISOSN GIT daomn 

pedqII aLxAGN 

SOIT GIT ALAN 


aZIS NI‘GIT AMMLONALS 


SSC at Bawewweeweawewonewreewrewweerereewe weer wwroeeroeowoeroeoereereereerewoee22eeroe 


ONNSIXY GIT sAAGEIT 
BONNdXA GIT saGEIT 
aSOTD gIT sadaIT 
NadO GIT dsaGaIT 


asvwd GIT LINIGIT 


suofjouny Axeaqy] przepue ys 


z ebeg F'sopserqy{/oexe 986T Lh:7Z © ueL 


WONT 

AZISIOSJA AIT-AIT INNOD Las 
GIT LNNOO nda 
ToquAguoftjoungzAreszqt—T y OWN 


gIT INNO 


T\ 


aaggIT 


:Asque uofTqounz Axesqy— yore euTjyep 02 pesn STF 3agdgIT ------s 


WONT 

Dang 

T\ Las 

oa TNs ONAT 

Sand 

agaugasn art Las 

cy 4 ENG O3dI 
[3es3z0eseq] » OYUN 


GIT INNOO 


GIT LINNOO 
LINIGIT 


:SUOTATUTJEP UoT_OUNZ Are1qTT 40J WESJJO eseq SISOS LINIGIT ------ : 


agauasn aIT nod 
(AZISIOAA AITsCaANaSaAN GIT) -3JSwa AIT ndg 
(AZISLOUA GIT-) «  Waddaaaa$ nog 

v 


GISNON AIT 
aiqaasn art 
aswd aIT 


nOl agAdaSaIy GIT 


9 ndd 


woo - ++ o-oo een === squeqjsuoD [TeToeds ---- 


I SAGON- OSX SANT 
uF Sepou/oexe,, FAN TONI 
I SAGON O5Xa GNAT 


AZISLOSA AIT 


FRSELECEFEERESE TSE FFEEF SES VES FFE LEFF EFE FETE FEEL EE FES FETE EEE T EES EEE ETE 


$ 24ex0T$ 
¢ dxq TAeO 60: TT:ST 8z/80/se O'T A’FSOTAAQTT :sepeoys 


TOAQUOD eo.Mog 


nee anengana & 


FEERELEFFE ESF FFE ES FETEFEFFE SSE FEELERS FEL EVES ESV E EEF E LTE VEST TEE ELE E EY 


+ 
SlTgI Spntour eaTyAncexg weyshs Huryesedo WOU -- ‘OUI ‘ebyuy-e10pouMioD , 


¥ 


FECEEEEEEE EERE SEPT EEE TESTE EES EE EERE EEE EE EERE EEE FIFE ER EERE RE EYEE EES 
T Las I saluwadIT ona 


IT salavadIT o3xXa ANaI 


ANON DMMOR © OO 


A - 26 


T eg Fsopseaqy{/oexe 986T L¥:7Z € ueL 


WANA Ss 
Z\’(I\) ‘T° SAON vS 

oons’epou x OWW dons ¢€s 

zs 

WANA TS 

SdNa 0S 

T\’ (IN aga NIFTIVIE HI =’ dO 60 
aa’ aONe ONSI Sv 

DUNa LY 

ow’ (OW) GSU NI+TIVEHT 38='T'diD oF 
on a tNs OaI SP 

[astt] »« ODW ISITISL tv 

ev 

WANA ty 

(t\) (GSaa-NI+TIVI-HT) ‘T\ T° SAOW Tp 
(INTIVE HI «01°80 Ov 

(T\) ‘TIVE HI# =‘ Gaaw 6 

(tT\) ‘T\ ‘T° SAOW Se 

ISTI « OUDW ISIIMIN LE 

oF 

Se 

AZIS HI ‘ISAT ve 

ped HI 43LAGN €€ 

qdkL HI = SLAGN ze 

GaudlIvE HI 3s_ UldW Te 

TIVE HI Uldv o€ 


aWaH HT uLdVv 62 
0’HI SENLONULS 82 


42 

Ssaceresee ese SaaS Sosa Sess sas SSH SSeS Sees ee esse sees ees oesseseseress== ¥ 92 
¥ SZ 
SeanqonAAS ASTI - $2 

s €2 

Seer SS se Sewanee Sess Sess ees ese esse SSS SS SSS Ss es ese saeSeeesese=sHsss-e x 22 
TZ 
2 0Z 

I S3SGON D3Xai SANA 6T 

ut Sepou/oexe,, FGNTIONI ST 

I SSGON OSXa ANAI LT 

oT 

EMRE EEE EET RE LETS VERE PEPER ERE EERE EERE REESE EERE EERE EEE E REY ST 
x OT 
$ <:deN00T$ y ET 

x ¢T 
$ dxq TAeo 96:6h%:ST 90/60/SB T°T A’F°SASTI :sepeoHs , IT 
x OT 

2TOAQUOD SOuNCS y= G6 

x 8 

RESEERERREERCEERE RETEST ESEEE ERECT RT ER TERRES PEER RER EERE ERE REE EEE ee EE = L 
¥ 9 

SlTd SPNTOUL SATAnoexyg uP Ass Hut Ae1edO WOU -- “Our “ebyuly-S10powMloD » ¢ 
*¥ VD 

EREERERE EERE EEEER EE EEE EERER EEE ER EERE RE TERE EERE VERE REE PERE EEE TEE EE CC 
T La3S I SLISIT D3XT Z 

I SLSIT O5xXa ANSI T 


T obeg F°SASTI/OOXS YOGET EG:FTI T udy 


A - 27 


I SaIUWUAIT OSXAI SUNG S7T 

v7T 

WONT €7T 

ow’+(dS) ‘I’ SAOW z2t 

T\ aITITWD T2T 

Ov’z7\ T° SAOW 02T 

(ds) -‘9W ‘I’ SAW 6TT 

Sana SIT 

ti] Squeum6.1e Aueul 003 - QWW GITDINIT iti TIva LIt 


Z-OWN LOAI 9IT 
esegAteiqtl ‘3OSJJQUCTFROUNZ xy. CWOW GITINIT STITT 


:QOOLIOOUT ST OW E41eYyM SUOTF}OUNZ HuyTTeO 4AOJ AITDINIT ------ + TT 


€ ebeg T'seyTseaqrT/oexe 986T Lb:7Z © ueL 


I SISIT Oaxai DNF PT 

EbT 

WONG ZvT 

O\IIVINAA THT 

(tw) ‘v# TOaav OvT 

(Tw) ‘ow ‘I’ SAON 6eT 

Tw’od )9= T'OXF SET 

(ow) aad NI+TIWLHT’0d = T'3AON LET 
O\TIVINAA s'Oad OCT 

od’ (Tv)Gaad NI ‘I’ AON SET 

tw’ (ow) Gaad NI+TIVE HI ‘T°’ SAOW vET 
OwoWW TIVINGA €€T 

zeT 

WONT TeT 

(e\) Gad NT’T\ T° AON oeT 

(t\) ‘e\ ‘T'SAOW 6ZT 

e\’(z\)  T'aAON 8ZT 

z\‘(T\) T'SAOW LzT 
Beyqozesos’epou‘peey y OW OCWAHWAN 92T 
SZT 

oy eo ee Meee ere sr Ser eee eee ee ee eee Case se eens s wb2eT 
x €2T 

“SPOU GUO ASPOT Ye UTERUOD OF UMOW{ SF ASTI x ZZT 
pue eTqe[TyTeae ST 4e AsTbe.a YOReAosS & USUA TnJesp x T2T 
x O2T 

Apjotnb peey-eaocuert -- OCWAHNAA + GIT 

x STT 

rtm nnn mn eee en eccennen= xs LTT 
OTT 

WANG STT 

®\qWaHNaa PIT 

(Tv) gud NI’0W ‘TI’ SAOW €TT 


€ ebeg F°SASTT/Cexe Og6T BG:PT T udy 


WANG 
(ow) Gad NI’TW ‘I’ SAOW 
(Tv) ‘ow ‘I'SAOW 


(ow) Gad NT’ TW 
oa’ (ow) dzad NT 
ow’ (OW) TIVE HT 


WONT 
e\ oad 
T\‘(z\) T’SAOW 
Z\’T\ T'SAON 
(9tasIa’xw’xd) TeqeT-3Txe’qQue.timno’yxeu y OCYOWN ACONIXAN 


WANA 
z\ aNd 
T\’ (IN GRd NI¢TIVI HI Tdi 


TeqeT’3STI « OWN ALANZIONII 
WONT 
z\ oad 
T\’ (t\) asad NI+TIVE HI | =6«'T aD 
TSeT ‘ASTI =» OWW ‘XLdNaaI 
WONd 
Z\‘ (t\)aaad NI ‘T° HAOW 
poid’epou , OW aad 


A - 28 


Z shed T°SASTI/Oexe OS6T BSG:PT T Ady 


I X8OWEW DaxXal SNA 


@zTs e7Aq yUNYO , 
yunyS AxXeu 02 AQd 


seyiq ee1zy JO sequMU , 

T+punoq A1owew ueddn , 

punoq AxOURU ASMOT 

uoTber ee1y ASATJ y 

uojTber STYR JO SOFAST4SE_OeAeYO , 


(T-aZISDOTA WAN) NOA ASWWHOTA WaW 
8nd aZISWOId WAN 


:yOoTq Auoweul e 4O0J sern1 QuewubTTe ------ s 


LT’ISHOMWT'WAN =ASGLIG 
OT’UVAIO’NIN 9 JaCLIG 


z ebeg y:Arowew/oexe 9861 6S:bT T Ady 


MOTTOJ 2eUQ SemjoN4z{s qW JO sSequMU SUT » 


Z’ISWa’WAN JaCLIG 
T’dIHO‘WAW + JaCLId 
O’OITdNd’WAN dJAaCLIG 


uoTie.1 stuQ JO YAHueT SUR 
(sOaca SW Se UOTIeESOT eures EYR 4OJ—y ¥ 
serie ue) 4O0TQ STU JO SSeuppe Sly » 
SRUSUBATNDSA WEPOOTTY Su x 


ujbeq Se.in}ONAAS JW SU} SJCYM x 


*seT4tque gw jo Aezre ue 
sey UOTUM JO Fore “semjons TW JO AST POxUTT & SF Fewuoj Sul 


‘uoT3TSod 

eures eu BbuyAdnooo prety sseszppe/squeuws1tTnbe. eu3 UTA ‘sures syQ 
ST ReuwI0j eu, *Atowcu poqeootte Apeoire Jo ASTT & ST Jeo ey 
‘ASTI squewespnbe.z e ST SUD :SULIOJ om} UT Sueedde AsTT[ AxcwSU VY 


een auancznannan te 


e 
é 
a 
— 
i 


IT SSGON DaxXai SdNg 
uF sepou/ OOXS,, SGN IONI 
I SAGON OSXa GNII 


FVEFFFFSFFFFFFFEFESELFFFFFFFFFFSFFF FEF FFEFFFFFFFELF FEST SE FE EEF FER EY 
¥ 

$ 3 ABHOOTS % 

¥ 

$ dxq Taeo Z0:ZT:ST 87/80/S8 O'T A’ T° AsOWSU :4uepeays 

¥ 

: TO4QU0Z) 9S0A1Anos ¥ 

¥ 

FFFEFVEFFFEFFFFFFF FF FFF FF FTF FFF FFF FFF FFF FF FE FT FFF EFSF FELEFFEFFEFEFEFY RY 


¥ 
SlTa SpnTour eATAnocexy weysks Huy jesedg WOU -- ‘our ‘eHyuy-e10pommoD , 
a ¥ 
ERECSEFEVEVECE ECE SE ELSE SESE VETS LH FETE SETHE LESTE E PELE CELE VE TEESE 
T LaS I AYOWAW DaXZ 

I ANONSW OSXA ANII 


ANMNPNHWOK DA 


A - 29 


T beg F°Aroweu/oexe 986T 6S:FT T Ady 


Zz nod AYONOI Wd 
T nog INILAOS Wd 
0 nod TWNOIS Vd 


ssuofqoe Bsyand ------% 


€ nog NOILOW 3d 
:SpIetz SHeTJ ------» 
YSVIOIS dW NOz INILIOS” dW 


sSUOTUN ------, 


AZIS dN ‘IsqWT 
ASTI pexquTT ebesseur , AZIS HT’ISITOSW dN LONULS 
PeETTeubts eq OF Hse » NSWLDIS dN _ ULdW 
Jequmu 47q TeubTS , LIGOIS dW 4LAGN 
SOWIT dN 4IAGN 
AZIS NI’dN JZYNLONULS 
SBS BB OGesoeeqowaae eweeer eve eee ec ewe Pee wee ee wee ee ew ee ree eer mr moorornyY 
¥ 
emjonis qiog ehessopypg 
¥ 


OOO CO 208 OOO SCO C8 SOO OO 8 Oe OO OS OOO OB OC OB SDS TSO DSSS FORDE MOC Poe weer~rw"E 


I SISIT Daxat SANA 
wt SYSTT/OSxe,, AGNIONI 
I-SISIT O3Xa GNaAI 


I’ SSCON OaXai DAN 

wt Sepou/oexe,, AGNIONI 

I” SSGON OSXa GNAI 

FREE EEE EEE ERSTE ESET ESET EEE EEE SESE EEE EEE E FEEL EEE EEF EEE EEL EL EEE EF 
$  34exD0T$ 

$ dxq [4eo HZ:ZT: ST ZT/TT/S8 TT A’ FE Sqiod : 4zepeays 


2 TOAQUOD So.1NO0S 


a ncnnnn Kn « 


FSFFFEF FESS FF ESS SL EFS SSS FEES SSCS FEST ESE SEES TE FES EE FES ELE F EEE FE FEL FE EE EE FE 
¥ 
SlTaA SPN[TOUL eaTANoexg we Asks Huy Wessedo Woy -- “our ‘ebHTuy-S10poullOD 
¥ 


PERERER SEER EERE ERE SEER EERE EEE E EERE RE EUY PERUSE EERE ERY RENE SEE SESE EE EY 
T LaS I SLuOd OAXa 
I SLuod Oaxa GNAI 


T eHeg F°squod/oexe O86T LP:7Z 


ANNAMNHNONR DNA 


uet 


I Sa0ON OaXat SOGNT 


tT nod SMOHdWWAS IN 
€T nda SSID0Ud IN 
2 nda INOJ IN 
tI now INILIOS IN 
OT now XYOWAW IN 
6 nda ABUWUGIT IN 
8 Now aounosay IN 
L Ndr OSWA Ida IN 
9 nda swag IN 
S now FOWSSAW IN 
v now LYOdDSW IN 
€ nda aDIAIC IN 
Zz nda LdNwaaINI IN 
T nos SSW _IN 
0 now NMONDIN( LN 


:sedA], Spon ------% 


aZIS NI ‘TaaWI 
SWWN NT aLdV 
lad NI LAd 
adAL NI a@LAGN 
qaudd NT ULdv 
SONS NT GLdw 

O’NI adanlonaLs 

eo wc ewww nn ene e won nee n ene neon nee we ree wenn wwe me ewe neem w eww sonny 

¥ 

SANIONAAS SPON ASTI # 

# 


@Seoenoeoeoee @Seeeoaooe@eooooeoee=] @Seoewee Ge @oeeenese See OQeG eee oeeeoeoene®& Ee ee eee eee ene a 


FFFFFFFFF FFF FFF FF FFE FEF FFF FETE EF FE FE FFE FE FFE ESE LEFF FEL ELE FEF FT FLEE F FFF, 
$ 198 x007$ 
$ Gx_z Tae gO:EzZ:ST ZT/TI/S8 TT A’ F°Sepou :zepeeys 


:TOAQUOD So.NOESg 


—_“a2axecn enw 


FFFFFFFEFFESF EF FESE FE FEF ELE LEE LE FE SESE EY SSE TSF EK FE FEL EE SEL EL ELE FE EERE 
¥ 
OITq SpNTOUL saTQnoexg we Asks Hut Aeszedo WOY -- ‘our “eHbTuy-o10poumiCD , 
¥ 
FSSEFEFFF SESE SESE SEES FEE FECT EE EE FEE EEL FEL E FETE EEE FES EELS HEE EST EEE EE TE EEE 
T LAS I SAHGON Dax 

I SSGON OaxXa ANAI 


ANOMNYNUONK DA 


A- 30 


T a6eg F°sepou/ooexe 986T LB:7Z © ueL 


IT INaGIsSay OsXai SONA €S 


zs 
GUTZ AAeASPTOO Ye ATUT » T nO TZIWISAIOO MLN TS 
YIUT ABAD JOASU y 0 nod UFIAIN MLY 0S 
SOIT LY UF uoTATsod pets ¢ I nog N3HM WLU 67 
:AQTLTQTzEdGUOD y CF 
Ly 
eqep 03 squjod JINI' La + L‘LINIOLNW’LY JAIGLIA 9” 
0’‘LYVISAI0D’LY JAGLIA SY 
ag 
:SUOFATUTJEP PIETZ pue aq SOWIT LU ------ x € 
zy 
Ty 
(uofQON4AQSUT TYOSTII) =» Oave$ NOT CAOMHDIWVW OLA OF 
6¢ 
SUOTQTUTJOP PAOM YOReP ------ * 8€ 
Le 
9¢ 
AZIS LY WWawl se 
@poo ATUT 02 4teqUTOd , LINI LY wWLdv ve 
HuT1z43s pT 02 seqQuTod , ONIULSGI LY wLdW €€ 
oureu epou 03 eqUTOd , SWWN LH wLdW ze 
AQTAoFAd UOCTAEZTLETATUT » Idd La ALA Te 
e[Npou Jo edAQ , JdAL LY ALAN oe 
ASqUMU UOTSASA ESeeTet x NOISUSA LY SLAGN 6Z 
sBetz Gey snopaen , SOWIa LY SLAAN 8z I SluOd Oaxat OANA we 
UeoOS ENUTAUOD OF SSeuppe , dINSGNA LA wULdW LZ es | 
eseq e.mzon13s 07 4oquTOd OVIHOIW LY = uldv 92 WSVIOIS GN NSA ODSWHOTWS Ze 
YOREU OR POM x CGaOMHOLWW LY Gaomn Sz te < 
O’LY AMNLONMLIS 2 sSUOTUN ---.--, 08 
€Z 6L 
Oe nn rn en rn en ern enn nnn nen mn man e 22 CL 
« 12 AZIS WS ‘HAV! LL 
Heyl, O[npom queptsey » 02 HOOT A0Z SPT JO soquMU Ssqdig ws dao 9L 
« 6T aZIS dN’WS @uUNLONNIS SZ 
a a aa a aa a a a + 8T BL 
tt  j  éé (‘H®t*HenSaShansaaasaecessesanaSeaeaaenaa SSH seaSserSns ess oo « €2 
oT s @L 
RRRERREEEEEEEVESER EERE REEEEREEESESTEEEEREEEETEFES EERE EERE RTE EEEEY ST q10qg ebessoyy escydeusg og = TL 
x OT s O24 
$ *FOMOOTS gy ET —«—_—_—_ mmm mmm mewn enn nnn nnn nm nnn m nnn nnn n nnn er essn ese ree= s 69 
xs 2T 69 
$ dxq [Ae Te:€T:ST 8z/80/s8 O°T A’F°QUeEpTSet :4epeeH$ y TT L9 
* OT qZIS NWN = ‘TSW 99 
STOAQUOD BOuNCGS yg: 6 seqAq ut Ue, ehesseu , HIONIT NN = aeoMn S9 
+ 8 quod Atde1 ebesseu , LUOdk1day NNO UULdW wo 
EREEEERESTEREEEELESEVEE ERE REESE LES EEEEEVEFESESELELEVE EEE TESTE ERE EY aZIS NI’NN daaNLNNIS €9 
¥ 29 
©TTa Epntour eaTAnoexg ueyshs BHutWesz8edo WOU -- ‘OUT ‘“ebTuy-e10pouMIOD » G eee ew wenn nnn nnn e nee n ne en wenn - +--+ eee x 19 
« 8 x 09 
ERERERERERUEEEUUUEEEEUUEEESSEEESUSTEEEEERESUUEEEEFEVEUEEEEES SERRE EE NYS «EC emmjoniys ebessoyy oy «66S 
tT LaS TY INAGISaY OAXA  Z * 8S 
T_INAGISaY OgXa GNAI T wenn nnn nnn oe oe nnn nn nnn nnn nn nn nnn ene ne- « “gs 


T e6eg F°quepyses/ooxe 986T LP:7Z E UeL z eBeg T°squcd/oexe 9g6T Lb:7Z © UeL 


I SONIULS O9XaI DONA ~9 
€9 

WONT z9 

z‘0 dOND 19 
0’OT’ET q‘od 09 
T\ q‘od 6S 
OT’ET g@°od 8S 
OWN wWIDNIYIS ZS 


z eg F°shuysaqs/oox® O86T Lb:7Z € ueL 


WONT 
Z‘0 dOND 
0’OT’ET q°od 
™ @°od 


OWVN WONTULS 


WANA 

z'0 dOND 

0 q°od 

™ aoa 
OT’eT q°od 


OWN ‘ONIYLS 


WANA 
z’0 dOND 
0 q°od 
™ aoa 

OWN ONIULS 


so1toey quoddns Butsz43g——sg 


Se @2@ee2rvweoeeeoeoaanwoe- SESH SSS SSSlBMVSVSFSFSSFVVS*Q**“P@* Fe FeQqoeeeerenqeoareeroeoeroeo ---¥ 


aT nog TIN 
aL$ nod jad 
8 nda sd 
€T now w 
OT nda aT 
L nda T1434 
0 nda Sod 
> TOAQUOY) TeuyUuLle], wwocee ¥ 


FSFE FFFPFEVE GFF FFF KK FF FEEFVF FFF FEF FEF FFE FE FEEL EF FPEFEVEF EEE V FYI EY 
$ :40900T$ 
$ dxq [Tae 90:HT:ST 8Z/80/S8 O°T A’ F'SHuTz3S : 4epeoHs 


3 TOszqUOD eBo.1NnEg 


“eax aa««« 


FESFVFFEPECFKF ESE FE FEE EEF F FE LEFF FEE VE FEE KEVF VE VF EVES VEE FEE VE VV ETT Y 
¥ 


SlTd Spntouyl seaTQnoexy weqAsks HuyAeszedg WON -- “our ‘ebyuy-S10poumlloD , 
¥ 
FRVEEVEVEF TELE S PESTS FEES EEE FEF EREVEEEEVEF EPH EE VE VEEP EEE PERVERTED 
T LAS I SONIULS O5XKgT 

I SONIMLS O35Xa ANII 


T eg Fshuysys/oexe 9g6T 1:77 


ANMONYPNONM DAA 


A - 32 


uel 


I SNSWE O3XSS SANA 26 

16 

sde1q poeqecotteead : 00080$ NOA DOTIWdVWAL SAS 06 
s[eub}Ts peqzecotteeud / g3a4qa0$ MOA OOTIWDIS SAS 68 
88 

48 


@ nod  soqdasIs 998 
% nod Lila ais se 
T nda GIIHD aIS +8 
0 nda LNoCaWadIS €8 


ooTo$ NOS sod adIs 8 
OoTOoS nda LITA IS 08 
z000$ NOd ATIIHD 49IS 624 
Tooo$ )§=6NnOaA «=CLMORW ADIS =8L 


:STeubTs ysey, weqshs ------ * 92 


T+GITWANI SL noa aaqqw SL 99 
0 NOI GIIWANISL 49 


:seqzejs Hse] ------ x 99 
$9 
$9 

L‘HONNWI‘'L JacLid €9 

9’HOLIMS’L agdLid z9 

S‘IdaoXa’L agaLia 19 

v’MHONOWIS’L agaLia 09 
O’SWILD0Ud’L JgaGLId 6S 
8S 

:Sqtq Setqy ------ x Ls 


z eg F°smjseqz/Oox® OG6T 6S:FT T Ady 


SS 
aZIS OL 486‘ TaaV1 wS 
eQepses( OL ULdv €S 
KASIM PSREOOTTS x AZIS H1T’AUINIWAW OL LONULs 7S 
NdD Sut 305 yseq , HONAVT OL ULdv TS 
NdD HutTso,T »ysey x HOLIMS OL UWLdV 0S 
2 + pumoq seddn oes , YdddndS OL ULdv 60 
punog JeMOT Hoes x YIMOTdS OL ULdv 8 
Jequtod 7oeqs , Oaeds OL wid Ld 
empecoid des oid AGOOdWUL OL = UL dW oF 
oo1d de1z3 coud u0z eQep WivddWal OL ULdw SU 
SMpeooid UOCTAGSOXS AGOOLdaOXT OL ULdW bb 
201d 3deoxe 103 eRep x WIWGIdaoXe OL ULdW ev 
petqeue sdetq , ATaWdWaL OL aaomn zy 
peqecotte sdezq x SOTTWdWal OL dXomn Te 
SUOT}Geoxe se oe} OM SHOTS x IddOX3DIS “OL  ONOTN Ov 
PSATEoe1 SAeY OM SHTS y GADDIS OL SONON 6€ 
Joj HuTAyem ose om SHOTS , LIVMOIS OL SNOTN se 
peqecot—te sHhTs , SOTTWOIS OL SONOTN Le 
HuyAseu peTqestp Ase} x INOLSANGL OL aLxAG 9€ 
Buy Aseu peTqestp AQUT INOLSSNGI OL aLxd se 
qLWIS OL 4JLAaN vE 
SOWIT OL SLAGN ee 
AZIS NI‘OL gaNLonuIs 2¢€ 
Te 
a RO ON x O€ 
¥ 62 C4 
BANJIONAAG [OAQWUOD ASL -» BZ 
x LZ ‘ 
wn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn renner nnn + 92 
SZ < 
bz 
I SISIT Oaxai SdNa €z 
uF SASTT/OSxe,, FANTONI ZZ 
I SISIT O3Xd GNII TZ 
0Z 
I SACON OSXaI SANA . 6T 
ut Sepou/oexa,, FJGNTIONI ST 
I SAGON O3Xd ANJI LT 
OT 
SFFFFFEFFESFFFVFFEFFFFFFELFFEEFEVF FEE FELE FEEL KE FFF ELE FEF ELF FF EE EEE VY 
¥ 
$ <:4e7H00TS » ET 
¥ cr 
$ dxq Tae ZE:HT:ST 8Z/80/SEB O'T A’F°SHSEQ -4EpeoHs rr 
¥ 
> [OAQUOZ) SOANIG x 6 
x 8 
SRFEVPFFFEEFFEFFFFVFFFRFFESFEEFFVVF EEF F FFF FFFE FE FE FE FLEECE FF ER FEF ELEGY : 
¥ 
©LTd Epntoul eaTANoexg weyshs Hut yetedQ WOU -- “OUT ‘ebTUY-S10poUuMOD y 
¥ D 
PEEEEFFEE FEET FLEE EE EET LETTE EEE EES EERE EE EE EEE EP ELE LE FETE EEE E EE ETE EF € 
T LIS I SNSWL OdXA 2 
I SNSWE O5xXa GNA T 


T abeg F°syseqz/ooxe 9861 6S:PT T Ady 


ett OWN LYOHSN 9S 


WONA TIT Ss 
aAGLIGO\ ’—a’z\’T\ OaaGLIA OTT WONG vs 
e\>>T Las aAGLIGO\ 60T @+LaSaI0S Las LISIIOS ES 
e\’a’z\‘T\ o0aaGLid 80T Lasagdos nda ™ 2S 
umMUR Tops ‘eureuy’xXFJOid y ONO aaGLIa LOT OdWN LHOHS 1S 
90T 0S 
= x SOT WON 69 
(avaID GWAN'IS'T) nda uvaIO aNaW ¥ v0T %+LISAIOS Las LaSas0S eP 
9T NOA Uva GNIW ¥ €0T LaSad0S NO ™ LY 
xs ZOT OWOVAN aqaomn 90 
<SPTOTA ¢ TOT Sv 
* 00T WONA vy 
OT’UWWID ‘WIN + JSCLIA x 66 2+LISaIOS Las LaSaIOS EY 
x 86 Lasasos Nz I\ 2 
[UPATQ og «= L6 OWN GaoM TP 
x 96 07 
wn nnn nnn nn nnn nn nnn nnn nn enn nnn OLOCU UOTFATUTJEP AT ------ s S6 WONA 6€ 
v6 T+LaSIg0S Las LaSaIOS Set 
WONT €6 LaSai0S nda ™ Le 
LaS3a40s NnOa - I\ 2 OWN ALAGN 9€ 
OWOVW TaqVI 16 Se 
06 WONT ve 
WONT 68 T+LaSaIOS Las LaSaIOS €€ 
Z\+LaSa30S Las LasaaIos ss LaSaaos nda \ ze 
LaSaI0S noa ™\ 2e OW aixg Te 
OWN IONS 98 o€ 
ss WANd 67 
WONa 78 Z+L3SaI0S Las LaSag0S 82% oD 
Z+LaSI30S Las Iasagzos _€8 Lasaaos nda ™\ 24% 0 
LISAIJOS nda \ zg OWN TOO 9% <f 
OWN wd 3 SZ 
os WON bz 
WANT 6L Z\ Las LaSaAIOS €Z 
%+1LaS440S Las LaSIIOS BL ees S,1eTqQUesSse JOJ x 0 Las \ 2 
LaSIIOS ndd T\ 24 OWW aaNIONUIS Tz 
OWN UldY 94 0Z 
SL WANA 6T 
WONG UL T\OAT  aguXx 8T 
%+LaSIIOS Las LaSaIOS EL OWWN GIT NYAIXA LT 
LaS3g0S ndd TW ZL oT 
OWN LVOTd ae PREFESELFVFSFVFEVFESESES EEF ELSE ESSE FEST LES ERE FE VEFEVF FES VE ELIE S TY . 
L ¥ 
WONT 69 $ :JOENHOTS y ET 
%+LaSIIOS Las IgaSag0S 89 « 2 
LaSJIOS Nor ™ £9 ¢ OXY T4eO GO: bH:LT ST/TT/S8 2°T A’T' Sedky :sepeoyg y IT 
OWN ONOIN 99 s OT 
S9 2TOAQUOD GOINOG yg «6 
WONT v9 * 8 
¥+LaISAIOS LaS LASAIOS €9 EREVEVETUTEEESESEEEEEEEEUEEEEEREEVEPESEEEESTES TESTES eee EEE EEE EE EE OL 
LaSaa0s nog ™\ 29 s 9 
OWN ONOI 19 ltd Epntour eaTyncexg weyshs GupReszedo WOU -- “OUT ‘eHTUY-E10pCUMIOD » ¢ 
09 s D 
WONZ 6S SVFVFFFEFEFSEFFETSFFFFFEVEFF FFF FFFFFFFFEFEVELFEFEFE LF EFELE FEF E PEL EYE TE € 
Z+L3S330S Las LaSaz0S 8s I LaS I SadkAL OaXaA Z 
LaSig0S nod T\ 2g YT SadkL OaXa ANAL T 


~g ebeg T'sedk3/oexe Og6T Lb:Z7Z Ee ueL T ebeg t'sedAj/ooxe O86T L¥:z7Z E UeL 


A - 35 


I SS3dAL OFXA DONA 6IT 

STITT 

Te nOd NOISUIA AMWUGIT LIT 
OTT 

WON STT 

t\ nog Z\E\T\ BIT 


on eay ‘odkyp9‘aureup’xtjosd » OW OJSCLIG ETT 


€ eeg T’sodAR/oexe 986T Lb:7Z € UeL 


Appendix B 


OTHER ROUTINES 


The Amiga ROM Kernel manuals have become more than just documents that describe 
the ROM Kernel. The name “ROM kernel” has been kept for historical reasons even 
though the “ROM” software loads into kickstart RAM. 


Certain topics were not available as of the most recent revision of the AmigaDOS manu- 
als. These topics are included in this appendix to ensure that Amiga developers will 
have the latest available information on these topics. These DOS-related topics are the 
Exec support library, AmigaDOS general information, and the Interchange File Format. 


Exec Support Library 


The Exec support library exec_support.lib contains Exec support functions. Included are 
the assembly language routines _NewList and _BeginIO and C language routines to 
create and delete standard and extended I/O requests. 


Debug.lib Routines 


This section contains summaries for the following routines in the debug.lib library: 


KDoF mt 
KGetChar 
KMayGetChar 
KPutChar 
KPutFmt 
KPutStr 


Amiga.lib Routines 


This section contains a description of utility functions built into amiga.lib. These func- 
tions are provided specifically for C-language binding in which each parameter to a func- 
tion is pushed onto the stack before calling the routine and the stack appears as follows: 


parameter.n 


parameter.2 8(SP) 
parameter.1 4(SP) 
return.address (SP) 


The stack is formed in this way typically by a C-language function call such as: 


result = Function( parameter.1, parameter.2 .... parameter.n); 


Amiga.lib contains such functions as printf, getc, putchar and so on. It also contains 
assembly code fragments that convert C-language calling conventions—that is, stack- 


based variable passing converted to register-based variable passing used by the Kickstart 
routines. 


If you wish to use the amiga.lib versions of the utility routines contained herein instead 
of those with equivalent names in the runtime library for a different C compiler, simply 
specify amiga.lib to the left on the command line for ALINK of that other runtime 
library and use Astartup.obj. The following is an example command: 


ALINK with myprogram.with 


The #myprogram. with file contains: 


FROM lib:Astartup.obj, myprogram.o 
TO myprogram 
LIBRARY lib:amiga.lib lib:lc.lib 


The advantage for certain routines (notably printf) is that you may have a smaller 
object module as a result of using the equivalent amiga.lib functions. The disadvan- 
tage is that there are some limitations on the formatting capabilities (outlined here). 
Also, be aware that you cannot mix functions from the runtime libraries of different 
compilers when I/O is used. That is, a “file handle” obtained from an AmigaDOS 
Open() routine cannot be passed as a “stream” to the Amiga C function fprintf. 
Thus, you should be aware of the parameters that each function expects. 


AmigaDOS General Information 


This part describes certain topics that are likely to be of interest to advanced developers 
who may wish to create new devices to be added to the Amiga or who may wish their 
code to run on Amiga computers that have been expanded beyond a 512K memory size. 


Interchange File Format 


The material in this appendix was developed jointly by Commodore-Amiga and Elec- 
tronic Arts. It includes source code for routines that will both read and write this data 
format. Commodore-Amiga has adopted this data interchange file format for internal 
use, and we recommend that our developers adopt it as well. 


~ 
pus 
pus 
| Sq 
OINIOgd Sit 
te’ (ds)p tT°sacu Oe TSIIMAN 
:oTuTbeg— oe’ (ds) T°eAcu 
: {ST IMENT 
oIujfbeg~ $$ jepx 
OluTbeg™ uot OSes ASTIMON- = jepx 
3ST IMON UOTIOeS 
ut OF/0Sxe, ACNTONI ut’ SASTT/oexe, ACNTDNI 
at $3.10d/o0xe,, ACGNTONI ut Sepou/oexe, AGN TONI 
at SOT Te QT [/20xe,, ACNIONI at’ sadk3/o0xe, ACN'IONI 
ut S{STT/0exe,, ACNTIONI 
wt Sepou/oexe,, AGNTONI VEEREEEEEEEESTSEESEETEEECESE FEST SEER ETESE SESE EEELESEEE EET TEETER TEES 
ut’ sedkQ/oexe,, ACNTONI ¥ 
QSTIMON -- SuOTQOUNA Q40ddng cexy ' 
¥ 


SVEFFSFFTFFFFFFESFFFESESFTSEEFFFEFFTFSFFFFFFEFVFTFEFFEFFFEFFFFEFEVEFFFFRTY 


tT ebeg use ojutfeg/Tjsedqxdde 986T PS:ST T Ady T ebeg wse-qsTIMen/Tazed:qxdde 9861 HG:ST T Ady 


} 


‘q40d, 210g6sq Jon-4s 
(310d) 3.10g030T eG 


{ 

‘(340d) wmje1 

((asti6sy da <- 310d) 9) 3ST INON Le 
(310d) 310gppy 

(o =| eueu) JT 

$(0) 34serputg = »serStg da <- ju10d 

‘3ya5ts = 3tG6ts dm <- qu0d 

STWNOIS Wd = sSetq du <- 10d 

SINO@ISWTIN = edAL ut’ epon™d <- 10d 

:yad. = Jug UT’ epon” dm <- 320d 

‘eureu = SUeN UT’ Spon’ dm <- 0d 

{ 
*((0) (+ yodbsw qon43s)) wimje2 
‘(ataits) Teubtsee.g 

+ (0 == yOod) 3T 

‘(orTand aWaW | wwe aWaW ’ (40d,) .joezTs (ONOTIN)) WeyooTTW = 310d 
[(0 (+ qtogisy 3onz9s)) ume. 

(t- = ((T-) reubtsoottw = 3ata6ts)) 3T 

‘quod, qiogSsw Jon.4s 

-37a5Ts ALA 

} 
‘Fad aixg 
‘eureu, eyo 


(jad ‘eureu) 210geQ{ee1D, WOgSsw Qon-qQs 


‘()3SeLpuT I, ASSL Qon-4s usza4xe 
‘() TeuBTSoottw gLAGN Ut]8eqxe 
‘ ()WE_POTIW ULdy uzeqxe 


TY Sseqoexe/dexe,, EPNTOUTH#H 

ut’ SYSC/OCXS,, SPNTOUTH 

ul’ SOT AeAq{TT/exe,, EPNTOUT# 

ud sz.10d/sexe, Opn out # 

ud sqdn.1163UT /2exe,, epn[ouT# 

{ ud’ Krcua/2exe,, Opn [OuT# 

‘((40d,) zoezts (ONOIN) ‘340d) weyse.g “UU SASTT/20x@,, EpNTOUTH 
ud Sepou/oexe, EpnTouT# 

‘(ataits "du <- 340d) Teubtsee.1g wt sedA3/oexe,, epnTouT# 

‘T - (4 pon qonys) = = pee ul 3sTIOsy da <- quod J eeRUREUSEEEEESEEETEUETEEESESEESUEEEESESTESTESTEETEETUESUESEER ESTES ESTE 
:33XxQ = edAL UT’ epondu <- Quod + 
sebessopyy pue Squ0g -- suoT Qoung quoddng cexy 8 


: (quod) quoguey 


¥% 
(0 =i (carenTut - epon du <- q0d) ) at CECESEUUUSEESESSSEETEFUSUSEESSSRSUUUEEEESEEEUUEUUUEUESESE ESE EEEEEEEEE EY / 


Yn) 
fQ 


{ 
$( ( beypasot )oraxmeqeTed ) umqe. 


} 
‘beyp sot, beyp3sor 2on-ys 
( beyp3sot ) orp3sereTed 


JeReEEEETESEEVESSEEEUESEETESESEESESTELESEESEELESTEPESEESEETESTESESTES ES ES 


OIaxFeAeTSed “OIPISEIee4) 
OSTw ads 


’( qsenbeyot )orp3se7eTed 
‘qsenbeyot, beypjzsol 3on.3s 
TIANWXA 


@NTeA U.MAe1 peuTjep ou 
LInsSdd 


*peeiz ©q 02 Gue Seounoset ESoYyM AOTA beypzsol eqy 02 sequTod w 
SINGNI 


‘gsenbei of ey 403 eqecotte Arcus eei17 
NOIIONNA 


‘ eypasot) orpaseI3e Ted 
SISGONKS 


qsenbe1 0/I 4oz peqecotre Axcusu umes - ( beyzsot )oIP3seqe1Sed 


CEEESESESSEESESSEESUUYSSSESEEEESEEEESES OIPISCICTOM/WOGdNS COX eyeess/ 


*eeaeeazaeaqanqagaeaaeneaeaaeeeee eae eanaeneneanek & 


¢( ( ( begpasor jon-ys )zoezts ‘qu0gkTdeyor )OI3axqeWee+H : 
(, begpjzsor qonszqs) )umje.1 ; 


Squ0gk{deyot, WogdsW Qon-ys 


v ebeg o-OIpyseqee.t/Tased:qxdde og6T TO:OT T uady 


( qu0ghtdeyot )orp3sezeesp 
y beypzsol 30n24s 


JeeeeeeEERSESEEEETTEEFESESTETESESTLEUEEEESTSEFTS TUTE TESEETTESEEEFEF TEESE 


OIAxXTeEWeeAD “OIPISEASTSd 
OSTW dds 


{ 

/( ,Asowaut QuefoTysnsul,, ) sQuTad 
} (TINN = »poTgGAm )3ZT 
¢( quod )orpaseqeesp = »potgAm 


‘quod, q40g6sw 3on4s 
‘yooTgAuly beyp3sor 3on-4s 
aTIdNVXa 


‘quod pTTea e& jou sea quod ATdex eqy 3eq} 410 
."gsenbey 0/1 eq 203 A1cusu yBnous OU SEA O1OG} JeYR SOJEOTPUT 
TION WY °2300TQ ysenbe. oF Meu eq} 02 4eQUTOd & suey 
LINSdd 
‘quod Atde. 
s,3senbe.1 0/I STG} 103 pesn eq OF q10d eiessou 


peztreraTuy Apeespe ue 03 2equtod @ - q10gKTdeyoT 
SLNANI 


‘MOOT Asenbet C/I MOU @ SOZTTETIFUF pues 40; Aroma! SOQEOOTTY 
NOLIONNA 


!( qaoghtdegot )orp3seqeetp = beyp3sor 
SISGONAS 


qsenbe.1 O/I prepueqs & eQeeID -- Domne. 


HSEaeeneaeanaeneaneneneneneaeananeenegeaeanenennannanane 


VREVESTSVESTSRSFETEVTT ERLE TE EE FEST TTS OIPISSIES.10/FA0GdNS “SEXO zeyyes/ 


ul SSseqoexe/dexe,, SPNTOUT# 
ees ee 

“ “ 
ul’ SOT ACAQTT/Oexe,, SPNTOUTH 
1° 82.10d/Sexe,, SPN TOUT HF 
wt s3dn.1163uT /sexe,, Opn [OUT # 
wo Axomau/oexe,, EpNTOUT# 
wd’ SYST T/oexe, SpNTOUT# 
wd’ Ssepou/oexe,, EpNTOUT#t 
ad’ sedk3/cexe,, Epn[ouT# 


JeUCUVSEEESSESESEETESESESESESESELESTETETESESIEFESESE SELES ESESETE ESTE TESS 
$ 
s senbey O/I p-repueys -- suotq°oung j10ddng cexg s 


¥ 
CUCUSUSEUEUSUSUSEUSESESUUEUEDESUSUSUSUEUSESEEEEEEEEEEsesesseseseeesesess/ 


Tt ebeg o°Orpyseyee.ty/Tased’qudde 9g6T TO:9T T Ady 


‘(09 rier ta 

¥ 

isn 103 dn peosy eq TTTA A1owsm ouR TT “emj{ons 

XSINAWEW OL 5, 57Se2 eG] 03 E.m{oN24S AST TW e peppe eA esnesed »/ 


} 
‘oqy ASSL on74s 
( 03 )1seLe2@TSd 


{ 
‘( 4seyMou )usmnqje2 
(0 ‘oaatuy ‘xserMeu )1selppy 
/+ Od TeuTZ AINeJep eyA osn -- we3sks ou 02 ASey SYA ppe ,/ 


£( Tu ‘Axququeyo3<-3selMeuy ) peeyppy 
‘ ( Axquyguey0<-HSeIMOUP ) IST IMON 
/~s ASTT Ascwou syse} S4A OF YF ppe »/ 


f‘eareu = SUIEN UT Spon O3<-27SeLAMou 
‘fad = Tid UT’ Spon” o}<-HselAou 
SNSWE IN = SdAL UT’ epono7<-HSelMou 
/» Semn{ONAYS eyep ysSe} OsTU y/ 


‘ aeddpgg09<-7SerMeu = Heyds~o7<-4selAeu 
S(ezTgyes + (4seMOTES~57<-ASeIMeU) (ONOIN)) (Ady) = teddnds“o3<-7seLMouU 
‘appy eu DOVES AW] dW TW<-Tu = teMoTgs 03<-Se]Mou 


‘appy eu DSW AW) aN Tu<-Tu (, 4SeL Jon13s) = yserMou 
/¢ 3303S Huyqunoooe Hoes eYR Wes ,/ 


{ 
‘( TIAN )umje. 
} ( wi )3t 


‘( astrwewaryey9 )AQuag°ortw (+ ISTTWEW QONQS) = TW 


fezT@peys = yybueTy eug’ OVIS awl SW Tus * 3ST TwouSerez 
‘eqe[GwelUSpPIseL = eerie ee 
¥ 
| AIWAINd JO xoeAs pue 
OITand Jo yseq :Asowsu JO soUNYS OMQ SRESOCTTES TTTA STUL y 
¥ 


fe. 9 (€+ EZTSIeAS) = EZTSHORAS 
/s °° °SpstomBuoT 03 dn xpeWs ey puns y/ 


{Ty ASTTEW 2ON.48 
‘qsTTwoueyey ASTTWeyerxe, 3ON44s 
‘ezTSueul ONOTN 


‘eureu, APD 
( eztgpeqs ‘oaqTUT ‘Tad ‘eureu )3xseleeetH 


zg ebeg o-yseleqeoso/Taszed:qxdde 9g6T HS:ST T udy 


yg ASSL Qon+.s8 


‘{ 
{ 
/~ %0kAS / {0 ‘HID aNaW } 
/* AS€X y/ *{ ( 4SeL QOn-Qs )z0ezTS ‘uvZIO aWaW | OITdNd JWaW } 
/~ :Seyszque Tenjoe ,/ } 
/~ SeyzQUe unU ,/ ‘SATUINSWNN 
/= PON 3/ ‘{o} 


} = ejeTdmyusppsez { 
‘ (SHTEINSNNN] SN Tes Arququeyexyez 7onz4s 
{sey zQUqUMN Tuy qaomn 
‘@pon Tuy Spon 3Ons4S 

} AsTTMEWE7e_Z Jon14s 


‘{ 
‘qy6uey eug ONOTN 
‘sbey ewz ONOIN 

} Axqugmeperyey Jon.4s 


oN 
\ 
7 
i 
3 


-A10uresul eT SZeooTtTe ATTen_Qoe 02 Adile_ye UST , 

‘peTyToeds sesn ey} FeYM OF OZTS HOeYS OY} JOS pue STQETIAA y 

TeooT e 03 sTuR Adoo TITM eM ‘SezTs ezeTidoidde IATA e10Y 
se.mjonis Asque wou ey ezee1001 J AQPOTIGITS Jo YseueqUT SYR UT » 
¥ 


***pOZTTeTATUT x 
Art peoT,eAs eq Aouueo AeqA pue ‘suoTuN eAeY SOTAQUCUI :5 Worz OP » 
02 puey st stuQ ‘ATeVeuNZAOjJUH = *SOTAUCUU CYR AJ Se 7e [Gey eu ;/ 


/s 
‘MOU J0J SJeTpUeY derzq pue uoTIdeoxe QITNejop SYR ESN TITA QI + 
‘ezTS HoeAs pue ‘AQTAoT4d ‘eureu UEATH YATA ASEQ & OREO yz 

+/ 


()IseLputay ASSL JONAS wtezxo 
$ (JWSYPOTIW Uldy Wtezxe 


yd OSeqQoexe/Oexe,, SEPNTOUTH 
ud’ Sysez/oexe,, OPNTOUTH 

ud’ SOTAeAQTT/Oexe,, SpPNTOUT# 
ud’ Sq40d/oexe,, Epn[oOuT# 

wt’ Szdn.18qUuT/oexe,, SEPNTOUT# 
ul’ Ascusul/oexe, SPNTOUTH 

ut’ SYST T/Oexe,, EpNTOUT# 

ud’ Sepou/oexe,, EPN[OUT# 

yd’ SedA3/cexe, Spn[OuT# 


T ebeg o ySelezee.+/TI4ed qxdde 986T HS:ST T Ady 


OI3*Fe2° TS 
OSTW das 


* (suotzeredo O/T pepuezxe 4103 »xooTq ysenboy O/I 
JBATIP ASTp70e.q e -6'e) GLAXAOI 4203 eoeds eRZEooTTe 03 pesn seTdurexe 


{ 
‘( SIWNOIS"HO WANTON )3Tx® 
} ( TIAN = »poTaAm )3T 
£( (GlaHOI 20Nn298) zoozTs ’q40d )OI3xqeqzee41D = »poTaAu 


Squod, quogisw 3on.14S 
‘ypoTgAll, ysenbeyor 3On-44s 
TIdNWXa 


‘pettez ysenbei eqy 
3T TINN 10 ‘2xpoTq ysenbey O/T Meu Sy} 03 sejUTOd e sunzeYy a 
LNs 


*peqeeio eq 02 AsSenbe1 O/T eq} jo EeZTS eUA - SEZTS 
‘quod Atde1 s,ysenbe.1 0/I sTyR 103 pesn eq oj 710d ebessou 
poztreratuy Apeeire ue oj sequtod e - z10gATdeyoT 
SINGNI 


‘ueddey T1Ta sbutaq Aqseu AOA 

euoS 10 ‘ebesseu cexg ue jo yQHue, euyy ue sweQVee.6 eq ISNW 

seqhq jo sz0equmu euy, ‘seqAq jo szequmu peTjzToeds-.zesn e jo 

Yo Tq ysenbei C/I Meu @ SseZTTeT{TUT pue 103 A1ouSU SOREOOTTY 
NOIIONN 


$( ezts ‘q40ghtdeyot )OIaxFeWee1D = beyor 
SISGONKS 


qsenber O/I ue eqeeso -- ()O19xqeEWeeID 
aNWN 


ea2neaeoeqaueaeaeannzne &@e&a2eaeaeee ene eee aznanaaeaezeaen nae e eee aetna ea 


¥ 
PREFREVESELEFSSE SESE TE SEE SE EFSF SSPE O13x7qe7"0.19/3.10ddns sexe seseey/ 
$()WEYPOTTY ULdy us]8qxe 

wt’ Sseqoexe/oexe,, EPNTOUTH 

ud’ Syse3/oexe, SpNTOUT# 


ut’ OF/Oexe,, EPNTOUTH# 
ul’ SOTICAQTT/OeXe,, EPNTOUTH 


J eeeeRERUSESEUUSELESEEEEEETEESERESEEESESESTEET ESTES EEETESESEETSESET ERE 
§ 
qsenbey 0/I pepueqxg -- uoT_oung ju10ddng cexg s 


¥ 
SUESESEVEUESEESEESESESESSSSESSSEESSYSSSSEUSEESESEESUEEUESEEEESSSE988999/ 


T eBeg o°orqxme wen/Tased qudde 9og6T z0:9T T Ady 


{ 


¢ ebeg o-xsereqeet/Tysed'qxdde 9g6T HS:ST T Ady 


£( qqbuey um ebessey oy <-3xg0T ‘pqOT )weyee.Z 


ST- (» 37UN ONS) = ATUN OCT<-3xXqOT 

ST- (, GOfAeq QoNAYS) = SOTABM”OT<-3XxRCT 

‘33x09 = edAT UT’ epon um ebessoy oT <-3xXQOT 

/» uepjooe Aq ysenbe. eq] esnei 023 puey QF exjeu 03 AQ y/ 
sumyes ( 3xq0F 1 )3T 


/s ->-Apzedoad sHupyy xoeq> ou pTPp esn ey ese ut ysnf a/ ; 


¢ ebeg o°OI3xqeWee.1O/Tased:qudde 9g6T Z0:9T T Ady 


‘qaxgqgot, 3senbeyor 3on-ns 
( 3xa0Tt ) O19*qeEIeTeEd 
/eeeRREsEUEESEETERESESESEEVEVERTETELESESEFEET EP ELE ET ES TELE ERTS EYELET ETSY 


OIFXFeVzeOAD 
OSTW ads 


‘( beyot )oraxge3°Ted 
‘beyot, ysenbeyor 7Aon.4s 
TIdNWXa 


ENTeA WiINn_et ou 
SLINSAT 


“peoiz eq 02 AOOT( ysenbeyoI yy 07 sequTod y - beyot 
SLNGNI 


- ()oraxqeyeeto Aq peqeoorte se ysenbei OF ue dn see.g 
NOILONNA 


‘( beyot )or3xse3°Ted 
SISGONKS 


qsenbe1 O/T pepueqxe tog pezecotte A1oweu uinjed - () o13x203°Ted 
aWWN 


RERERERVESEESEVERSUEETELESESTESES BEETS OIIXACICTSA/JAOCGANSOOXS suzy sy 


any NEKERARRRARHEREHEKREEHEERHEREE EA & 


‘( beyof )umje. 
‘quogk{deyot = WogkTdey um ebesseyfoy <-beyort 


‘ezys = yyhueT um: ebessoy oy <-beyoy 
‘SOWSSANIN = edAL-UT* epon um ebessoyot<-beyot 


{ 
‘( TIAN )umje4 
} ( TINN = beyot )3t 


‘( ortand aan | ava aWaW ‘ezTs )weyPoTTy = beyor 


{ 
!( TIAN.) wmgjer 
} ( TIAN = Wogktdexyot )3T 


‘beyot, ysenbexyor ons } 
/@ZTS ONOT 
Sqs0ghTdeyot, Woghsw Aona3s 
( ezts ‘q40ghTdeyoy )O13xqTeWee1D 
» 3enbeyol ons 


J eEREREEESESESEEETESTEFESESTETT TEST EEESESTSELELEFEPEFETE SESE E EEL TEESE EES 
¥ 


gy ebeg O° Oraxqeqee.to/Tased:qxdde 966T Z0:9T T adv 


‘eoTAep ETOSUCD Hngep eYQ wWoaz teROeTeyD FxeU EY} 306 
NOLIONNS 


od 
‘ () sey eoy = sey 
SISdONKS 


(-eStuy eyy jo q10d TeyT4es eq OF peyoej eS SoTASep 
pneq 0096 ©) eTosuco Hngep Sy} wos seqoeteyo & 90H - szeyD3e) 
GAN 


azeqD399y/aFT *Snqep 2eq399)1/AT T° Hnqep 


*DO0AgUDANG 02 nawqQ sessed qeyW szeqsTHoe1 ssezppe ue - eVequo Nd 
*HuT4z3s Weuioj ey 
gO pue ey Ae sey ITNU © UATA Pe[Teo st einpecoid ey 
ev 8:0-00 


©q 02 ASROeTeEYO YORO UATA [TeO 02 Snpeooid eyW - SOAgUD {Nd 
*BuTAAs WeuLioy SUA 
03 SuTpszccoe peqeidiequT sft 7eyQ eAep jo weerzgs e - weesqgejed 
. :sedky % pequoddns BuyfmMoTToy euy uyyA ‘“Huyaqs 
QEULIOJ peReUTULIOR [[Nu exfT-eHenbueT-,9, e - Hbupsaygjqeui0g 
SINGNI 


SUT e We JER_OeAETH e ATNSe1 eX Buty AndQno 
‘ueei3s eep e jo HuTQQeWI0J ExT T[-eHenbueT-,,D, wiozs0ed 


NOILONNA 
ew ww TW ow 
S(eqequo¢ng ‘oougupyng ‘weeszygezeq ‘Huzsyg7eUWL10]g) WIM! 
SISGONAS 


“WkOAZS AOQOeAEYO & OUT eFEp YEULIOZ -- WI 
aWYN 


aoqgy/at Tt *Snqep qwyzog/att*Snqep 


g e6eg 00q°Areuqy1’ Snqeq/tTased’qxdde 986T 60:9T T adv 


‘MOTE peqyTiosep se UOTROUNJ IITA SeuT Nos 
Je,oe1eyo-306 pue 3uTad Snqep eyy ‘°ob oj Apees pue dn Jes aou sft quod euy 


06 


edA3, ‘TeUTULIER [eUIEZXe EYyW WoOuy ‘Ue ‘IID & Wouj 
HOCMUIOL 


Huftteo Aq 
sieqeueted quod TeTses euq yes ueo nok ‘ATIOe1100 epou Hnqep ey 71eYs oO] 


‘quod TeT4ues s,ehbTuy ey 

©} SOTASP pneq 0096 e& peqoouUCS sey szcuMeEtHoOid SI JF SeUT INOA 
Bnqep eseyj esn 410 ‘epoo aqetudoudde eyj seynoexe UMQ UF YOTYA 
‘ues6Hoid uTew ey 02 Hoeq sebesseul pues JSURTS plTnoys szsej sy 
‘epoo juepuedep-ssesoid Aue e3noexe sxjse} esol SAPY OQ “UMO ST 
uo sxse3 Aue sumeds wesfoud mod JI ‘sseooid jeyR jo jued suiodeq 
SIT€O 3T seuTqno41 Aue so ()ufeu zo qued Auy ‘uwesboud .moA uns 

02 sogebtuy se noA ueym peqziejs st sseooud Ww ‘UOT OUNJ OF 4ep40 
UT Tepoul sseooid e eatnbe. Ady Jey UT ‘seq e Woszy UeqQ seyjze1 
‘sseoo0id e wosy ATUO peTTeS eq prInoys ‘eTduexe 10J jueos pue jz QuTud 
se yons ‘[Tenueul dD SOFA Ie] SY UF PeASTT Sue QeuQ seuTQnoy °S7sey 
wo1j ATIOS.Tp peTTeS eq ued ‘Seis peRSTT SSouA se [Tea se TenueW 
Qouseiejey [Teusey WOU eHTuy Seu UT peqT4osep Sue Jey soeuTQNoY 
‘epoo uresboid wmoA jo qued Teofstyud e souoceq Aresqyt—T pexUuTT STUL 
-Axeiq¢tT e Suyuedo uey szeyjer out, AUTT/eTTdUOo Je QF OF AUTT nox 
-Areiqy7[ peszeys e ueyy seyjes Axeuqy[, poxut. e& St QFT’Ongqep eur 


"GFT Snqep ey UT ETAeTTEAe SeUTINO. EY SOUTTINO UOTQCeS STUL 
NOILONGOUINI 


tT e6eg coq: AxeaqyySnqeq/Tasedqxdde 9g6T 60:9T T sdy 


B- 10 


‘SOTASP ETOSUOCS Hnqgep eqA of HbuT.As pe _euTULIe, [T[nu e 4nd 


NOLIONNA 
ow 
(6uz 23s) 24Sg49NdI 
SISGONKS 


* (quod TeT4zes ebymy ey, 03 peqoelje) 
STosuco Snqep eq; oj buy.3s e and - 4s3NAa 
aWWN 


A3S3Ngi/atT *Snqep ASD /aqt1t Haqep 


% ebeg coq’ Aresqyy Snqeq/Tzsed‘qxdde 9g6T 60:91 T Ady 


@OTASP ETOSUCS Hngep eyy 02 eIep pe_yeuioy AuTad 
NOLIONNA 


TW ow 
‘ (sontea’ yew103) quan 
SISGONAS 
‘(quod Tefses eHbpuy 03 peqoeqqe SoTAep) 
eTosuco Snqep eyA O23 eAep pez zeU0s Quyad - AwAINgy 
ANN 


qwyaND/at Tt *Snqep WyAND/at tt’ Snqep 


‘SOTASP ETOSUCS Hnqep eA 03 4weROeTeEYO e And 


NOLIONN 

oa oa 

‘ (aeqo) seyp3ngy = sey 
SISGONAS 


‘(quod TeTses eStuy 02 peyoejje eotaep) 
@TOsucCo Hngep eqy of szeROerTeYO & Qnd - szeW {Ng 
aN 


aeqINH/atT *Snqep ceqDI{NDI/arT* Snqep 


Sut {Tea SeA WeqQ sey eA 
Jo ‘queseid seq ou st e16eq3 yemQ BuTAes ‘T- e szeuNQTe um je. 


‘(quod [TeTses peqoej{e eoTAep) 
“MOOT 3,U0p 3nq ‘Queseid JJ> azeyo &e UM{eL - se EDR] 
aWwN 


azeqnqepheppi/att *Snqep aeqnqenheppi/qrt *Sngep 


¢ ebeg 0g’ Axeaqry Snqeg/T3szed:qudde 986T 60:9T T udy 


11 


JOEY 
OSTW 3dS 
*qQesez weqshs yxeU 3BYyy [TIUN 


qUepTser ATOUSU UTeuUlT YsnU JOLPPwY OF pessed are JeYyY srezowered 
oyy 3eYUQ SuUPSU STULL jenenb ay UT shkeys ysez asyQ ‘peppe so0Uu0 


sond 
*d Aq 03 poqutod 
auTQNOI aznoK 03 pessed squeumHre ayQ se posn oq OF ST 
Jeu spzombuoT jo Aerze ue UT pAOMHuOT YSATJ ayQ OF AeqUTOd - e 
*sueddey JOL owr3 
yore [[eO 03 ST AsAISS STUR FER OUTANOA |apood-yD ayW OF AaqUTOd - d 
*I9SAISI |anqonzAS 0} JeqUTOd —- fF 
SLNdNI 
*uTeYyo 
Aeares Adnzz uy TearezuT HuTyueTq-TeoTzAaA |ayA OF ySeR e ppe OL 
NOIDLONN A 
£(e/d’T)dOLPPW 
SISdONAS 
‘uyeyo Taares Ydniiz98ezU] suerzqzjodoy ey} 07 ysez e ppe — JOLPPW 
AWN 
AOLPPW AOLPPW 


@ abed oop’qy{-ebTwe 9861 6T7ET LT Adw 


yqutads 
JOLY 
pueyobuey 
areyo 3nd 
yqutad 
NTNWI 
STOWI 
NATdl 
SATCI 
reyo jeb 
oyndj 
y3UTIAdJ 
oWebj 
pueydysed 
AOLPPW 


SZINGINOO dO aTavL 


T abeg Sop’qtT’ebrwe 9g6T 6TET LT Adv 


B- 12 


zeyo job 
OSTW ddaS 


*yUTTW und nNOA UBYyM JOAIe BsdUSsTZJe1 PeaToseizun 
ue 36 [ITM NOK /uoTAouny (YyJ)TeYyOpesy e apyTAoid 4,UOp NOA JI 
sona 


‘({-)uamyaa 
asta 

!(x)uamnjea 
(T == [Tenq0e)jJT 
£(1{/xs ‘yz )pesy = TenQoe 
fTenqoe UT 
‘x zeyo 
f‘ujx OTpUeHET TA 3on14s 


/* AOIIA »/ 


/% YO »/ 


} 
(uz )Teyopeey 


!({yuJ)oqoHJ = O 
FIdNWXd 


*I0II@ JT T— IO ’GGZ 03 Q jo Sbhue1r syQ ut JoebequT = 0 
LINSaY 
*(zaqutod Idoqd &) tequTod eTpueHeETTA Sodebyuy ue - uz 
SLNdGNI 
*pezequnoous ST 1O1Ie TeyIO IO JOA JF T-— JO onTea e 
SOASTIWOY ‘UsdO ST STpuey STTJ Sy YOTYM OF STTJ Sy WoIj Ae_OeTeYO 
3Xeu ayy eAeTIWET 09 (UJ) JeqUTOd aTpueYy eTTJ SodebtTuy syuy eSsn pTNoys 
uOTzeQUSWSTdUT TeuIoU ay, ‘uoTReITEedO OREHJ SYR wWWOJIEed OF YUTT 
ue UOTIOUNS QTT°ebTue oy YyOTyM yATA (YUZ)TeYOpesy JO UOTSISA 
woISsNd UMO ANOA apTaord osTe ysnu nok ‘/uoTWounJ sTyZ esn OF 
3euZ suvow YyoTYyM /,,7eyopeed dul, st o3ebJ Jo uot equeusTduy 
qtt‘ebyue ayL ‘eutTqnor reyopeey HutATAzAepun pezTuoysnd-—Jsesn e 
TTeo ynq ‘uo; ZOUNZ ayxTT-xTUn prepueAs e OF [TBO & /4xSez SOMOS 
uy ‘Ajfoeds 03 resn e HhuyMoTTe uofzounz ,,yored, & St STUL “ALON 
NOILONNA 
£(uj)oqVeHJ = Oo 
SISdONAS 
‘weerqS petyqoeds e worj Tejoereyo e 34eyd — oJebj 
aWWN 


07063 oWebj 


y abeg Oop'qTTebywe 9861 6T°ET LT Adw 


pueyzsed 
OSTW dds 
onTea 31q-ze e - rzequnu— 
LINSaY 
Tabet 3Tq-ZE eB — pees 
SLNdNI 
pue TPaZLSQT$ SNTeA Xey YITM po, 1O-sATSNTOXS juopiiecd BuO 338T 
poyytus ‘yoeqs worj useye} ST oenTea poss -ATUO UOT IeQUeUSTdUIT-D 
NOILONNA 


‘(pees)puew3sed = Zequnu 
SISdONAS 
*Zequnu wopuet-opnesd e oqereueb ATyoTnNb -— pueyjysed 
SAWN 
pueyysed puewzsea 


€ abed oop'qTT’ebyure 9g6T 6T:ET LT Adv 


B- 13 


xeyo3nd 
OSTW gas 
-usouy ou0U 
sond 
*(xequTod Tddd) TeqzUTod eTpuey eTTy sodebyuw ue — UF 
SLOdNI 
‘(yy) oTpueYy eTTJ soaebyuy sfyz oj uedo 
ST YOTUM OTT ayy 02 SOdebtuy Yybnoryy Jeqoereyo e yndyNno 
NOLLONNA 
‘ (yz )ognds 
SISdONAS 
"wears peTjtToeds e 03 Ae_OereYO e AyNdQNO — oOAnd}J 
aWWN 
oyndy oqndj 


g abeg cop'qyT‘ebywe 9861 6T*ET LT 1dv 


yzayad 
OosTW aas 
‘wealqs 
qndqno ay} OUT pozqeUoJ aq 03 UCTJeEUWIOJUT OTZEUMNU —- (S)aNTeA 
*HuTAqeuoj yndyAno perztsep . 
auy Hutqriosep Hbuy1z3s poezeutuizs3 [[hu e 03 TejUTod — bHhuy1zAszeuI0; 
*(zequtod Tdod) eTpuey eTTy sodebyuw ue oj JazuTod e - uJ 
SLAdNI 
‘weerys ynd3no petytoeds e z0x Jjuyad wiojited 
NOLLONNA 
{( [ [sentea’] antea’) Hbuptrasqeumoz ‘yz )JQUTAdJ 
SISdONAS 
-weerqs yndqno poetytoeds e 03 4yndqno poeyqewmroJ QuTid — J RuTAdy 
SNYN 
yquzAzdyz yzazady 


G abeq oop’qrT-ebtue 9g6T 6T‘ET LT Adv 


B-14 


NATaI 
OSTW gas 
*uMoUuY oUuCU 
song 
‘ume (37q-9T) prom poubts e - 3[NseT 
winsay 
anTea 3fq-9T poubys — IOSTATp 
anTea 3Iq-zE pouby~s — puepTaTp 
SLOdNI 
“3[NseT e se ontTea 3Tq-9[T poubts e uImjzer pue 
anTea 37q-91T poubts e Aq enTea 31qQ-zE poubys e epTatd 
NOILONNA 
‘(IOSFATP’ PUSPTATP)SATCI = 3[Nser 
SISdONAS 
(3a0ys) peubts epyatd JebezaI - satdl 
aWWN 
SAFI SATdI 


g abedg cop'qtTebywe 9861 61T°€T LT adv 


OSTW dds 


‘umouy oucCU 


sond 
“GS2@ 02 0 
wol}; aebuer pTnoys aenTea ayy ssTMIeyWO ‘“peuiNjer St [- JO onTea 
e ‘pejou ST torZa ue JT ‘oantea (31qQ-zE) AebequT ue st Ta oRreYO 
LTNSaYd 
ouoU 
SLAdNI 
‘(@TTJ e@ WOT} peJSeITpeT useeq sey UTPIS FT) STTF 
e WOT] Taq,ORIPYO 3xXOU 3UQ eAdTIAET IO (TeUTUIDZ TeNzITA e OF 
poyoOouuOCD ST UTpys JT) preoqKksy oy} ye pedAR eq OF JazOeIeYO 
3xOU BUy AOJ YTeA OQ UOTIOUN;J pesy sodebtuy HutTATJepun sayy espn 
NOT.LONNA 
{()zeyoqeb = Oo 
SISdONAS 
-(uTp3s) yndut prepueys ayy wory TeqoerTeyo yxoeu ay} yab - zeyo eb 
aNWN 
eyo eb xzeyo jeb 


L abea oop'qtT*ebtwe 9g6T 6T:ET LT Adv 


B-15 


TOW 
OSTW gas 
*“umouy suou 
sond 
"ummyer (3TqQ-ZE) WUT poubys e - yINsax 
LInsa 
sonTea 37q-9T poubts - A ‘x 
SLOANI 
"3INsar e se anTeA 37q-ZE 
peubts e uimjer pue senTea 3Tq-9T peubts oq ATdt3TMW 
NOLLONNA 
{(A‘X)STOWI = 3][Nsez 
SISdONAS 
(310ys) peubts ATd}3 [NW Tebezul - sTnWI 
aWWN 
STOW STUWI 


OT abeq oop’qyT’ebpue gg6El 6I°ET LI Adw 


OSTW aS 

‘umouy ou0U 
son 

"amex (37q-9T) prom peubfsun ue — z[Nser 
LInsaa 


eNTea 3#Tq-9T poubTsun - TOsTaATp 
enTea 3¢q-zE poubyTsum — puepTaTp 


SLOAdNI 


“3IMsearT e Sse anTeA 3Tq-9T poubtsun ue Uinjer pue 
anTea 3Tq-9T peubzsun ue Aq antes 37qG-ZE peubysun ue spTatd 


NOLLONOA 

-£(ZOSTATp‘ PUePFATP)NATGI = 3[Nser 
SISGONAS 

(qz0ys) peubtsun epfatd rebequl —- natal 


NAtdt NATCI 


6 obed cop’qTt‘ebtue 9861 6T°ET LT Adw 


B - 16 


STuQ JO UIPTA T{N}J oyQ AOJ AOTTe 03 Seoeds Auecu 


Moy ‘ST 2eYU ~*“AaTyToods YAPTA-pTeTy Teuotydo ue ° 
UFPTA 
PTOTy SyQ UTYATA WezT pozQeuozZ oyW AFTasn(—ZJeT 07 
Taq{euloj SY STTEqI WeUQ UbTS (—) snuTU TeUOCTAdO Ue Oo 


:Ajtoeds oste Aew nok ‘Ty ayQ HuyMoT Tos 

*uOTJeUIOJUT QUTOd HutTzeoTF AndyAno Of YSTM NOA JT suoT_oUnNy 

qutod 6Hutjzeo[T}J Hutpuodseiz100 ayQ pue jJjUtTAd Jo wioj D ebTuy 3syy asn 02 
SaePY [T,NOX “Hut AQeuuoj qndyno Autod HburAec{jZ Jo wroyz Aue zr0ddns JON 
Soop JaqyeUIOJ AuTId e Jo UOCTSIAA AUaPTSeT WOU SYA yeYQ OSTe SOTION 


‘son{Tea pzrombuo, ssed ATuo ued 9: AOJ soUSeNbes Hut{ [eo asyQ sours DO woIj 
peTTeo JY yeuzoj oyQ Jo qired se posn oq Asnu ASQoORTeYO (J-TTews) TT, SUL 


SIayzoereyoO Jo Hbutr.s poe euture3- [Thu 
e JO ssazppe butqze4s ayy ST prom HuoT yxeu 3uQ —- STs 


Jequnu TeuUToOepexey e se 
po qqeutoy oq 03 st Aerize syuQ UT pr0OM HuoT yxeu ayQ - xTe 


Zequnu Teuroep e se 
poqqeut0ojy aq 03 st Aerre syQ UT pOM HuoT 3zxou ayy - PTS 


anTea (3Tq-g) AeZORTeYUO e se 
poqqeustoy oq OQ st Aerre sy UT PIOM HucT 4yxou ayQ - OTs 


:JquUTId 03 [Teo Teulou |yy YYTA UOUMWO 
UT ‘SUOTSI@AUGO YeULIOJ HUTMOTTOJ ayy eTpuey ueo JQuTAd uoTAOUNZ syL 


“UOTPEUIOJUT ZeuIoy Sy OF Peppe oq OF 
shutz3s pezeuypUiey-[T{Nnu Jo sasseippe TO seTqeTzeA oTZoumU - (S)anNTeA 


*“MO[TSq UuMOUS se 
SUOTSI@AUCD WeULIOJ HutpntouTt /ejzep yandyno ayA jo yeurtoj 
ayy butqtzosep Hhutazaqs pe .eutuisz-[[nu e 03 JaqZUTOd e — HutzysQeunr0j 
SLOdNI 


:but13s 
qeULIOy SYyQ UT SUOTIeOTJTOedS YQTA BsoURepPIODDRe UT Ynd|ANo 3YyQ qeuULIOY 


NOILONNA 
‘( ( (santea’] onqtea’] butzqysqewioj )jJQutad 

SISdONAS 
“gndqno pzepueys ay} 0} SUTT yndyno peqqeuoj e Quid - jJQutId 

aWWN 

yqutad yqutad 


Zt abed oop-qt{'ebtwe g9g6T 6T°ET LT adv 


STAWI 
OSTW dus 
‘uMOUY SUOU 
sond 
‘umnjer (31Iq-zE) yUT peubysun ue - yTNseT 
LTNSdd 
SonTeA 3Iq-9T poubtsun - A ‘x 
SLAdNI 
‘4[Nser e se anTRA 3Tq-ZE 
poubtsun ue uimjer pue sentea 31q-9T peubtsun omy ATdTATNW 
NOTLONNA 
£(A’x)NTOWI = FINsez 
SISdONAS 
(3104s) peubtsun ATdtQ MW Tebezul - ATNWI 
ANN 
ATNWI ATOWI 


Ut a6ed oop'qyT*ebtwe g9g6T 6TET LT.1Adv 


B-17 


reyo nd 


‘uMouy ouoU 
sond 
-*GGZ O02 Q wory Huybuer ontTea AebequyT -— o 
SLOAdNI 
‘Za,oeIeyoO aThuys e azTIM 
NOTLONN.A 
£(9)zeyo und 
SISdONAS 
FNOpAs yUSeTIMS sy} OF FeVORIeYO aTbhuts e yndAno — xreyo nd 
aWVN 
zeyo und 


YI abed oop-qtT‘ebture 9g6T 6I:ET LT adw 


B- 18 


umMouy au0oU 


Sond 


*(syooq 1eyj0 UF ,j3UTAd, ses) sUOTAdO HuTAQeEULIOJ aseUQ Jo 
osn oy} JO seTduexe 10j butumrerbord ebenbue{ Dd uo syoog AayjO aes 


*Hbutz3s e woay AuTId 03 
sreqorreyo JO Jequmu umutTxeul ayy satytoeds yey (ATuo 


suotqeotsy foods sT% 10J) Hbuysz4s YFHTp [euoty4do ue Oo 
iatjtoods 
siayorzreyo JO Aequnu umuTxXeu e WOIJ AeTJToeds 
UIPTA 3syQ se jeredes zeyA (°) potzed Teuotydo ue Oo 


PeTTts-aeTC JO pesyAsuy pel [fJ—O19z 

oq 03 ore (rzequmu e ATTensn) wet poqQeuoJ ou 
JO peoye ‘saoeds butpeaTt yey suesul QT ‘(09) arez e 
YaTA sutTbeq Jeftytoeds uPTA PTeTy ayy JI “wezT 


ET ebed oop'qyTebyue g9g6T 6TET LT Adu 


AOLPPW 
OSTW dds 


*Zesez weysks. 3xeU 39uQ [}T3UN SATIOR SUTeURIT ‘/peTTeASUT 
90u0 ‘/TeAIeS JOL YW ‘butyAou seop eutynor styy ‘HutAtTazam styq jo sw 


sond 

*“IZSAISI aInj{oNnIAS 03 Iseq4UTOod - FT 
SLNdNI 

‘uTeyo 

TaAtes ydniz38\4UT [TeareAuT HutTyuelq-TeoTzIea sy wWoAy yseqz e SAcURI OL 
NOLLONNA 

(7) dome" 
SISdONAS 

‘ufeyo Teates Adnizequy surexzqjodo], ay} worj yseR e sacuUbY - JOMPUY 
aWNWN 
AOI Y JOIN 


9T obeg oop'qtTtT-ebtwe 9g6T 6T:ET LT adw 


pueyysed 
OSTW das 
umouy eu0u 
song 
*<anTeA> O32 T JO aebuezr oyA UT Aebe AUT wopuer opnesd -— Jequmnu 


LINSad 
“GESS9 OF T JO obuer syQ UT AeboequyT ~— enTea 
SLOdNI 
‘Tabeyuyt 34q-9T e@ ATUO SF 3} 
ybnoyy se pesn 3nq tebe jut 4Tq-zE e se yoreqJS UO pessed ST ONTeA 
“uoTzejUeweTduy ebenbue[T—D *a30N ~°(rabeqUuT 3Tq-91[) ‘ebuezr yzeYyR UTYUATA 
enTea e& SUINAQeT pue ’GEGS9 OF T WoUj oNnTea e sqdaocoe pueyobuey 
NOIT.LONNA 
‘(anTea)pueyebuey = Jequmu 
SISdONAS 
“aNTePA OF Q FO 
abuer rehbequt oTyToeds e uTyyTA Tequmu wopuer e uteyo OL — pueysebuey 
aWYN 
pueyobuey pueyobury 


ST ebed cop’qtt’ebywe 9g6T 6T*ET LT Adw 


B-19 


8T obeg oop’qtt: ebtue 


Jqutad 
OSTW ags 
*‘umouy su0U 
song 
‘weaz4s 
3nd3no ay OUT poz zeuULIOJ aq OF UOTZeUIOJUT OTIEUMU — (S)ENTeA 
*Hbut}zzewuxr0J Andyno pexrztsep 
ayy butqrzosep HutzAs pozeurmms} [Inu e 02 AaquTod — HutzAs euro; 
*pooetd oq 0} ST 3nd3Ano po zzeUIOJ 
oyu} YOTYyM OjUT ATOWSUl UT eeTe ue JO sSazppe oy — UOTIeUTISEep 
SLAdNI 


*ATOuUBU UT UOTeUTASEep OTJTOSdS e OUT 
qnd3qno 9y} 3earTp ynq ’JRZUTAd 03 TeoTAUepPT HuTQQewIOJ HuTzWs wrojred 


NOILONNA 

‘( { [sentea ’] anqtea’)] Hbutzqysqewros ‘uorqeuartqsep )sjuaTads 
SISdONAS 

Jeyjnq butz3s e oqut Bbutz34s e yewroj — jJ3uTAds 
FAWN 


yz UTIids yqutads 


986T 6T°ET LT Adv LT abeg oop‘qrt-ebtwe  9g6T 6T°ET LT AdW 


B - 20 


pesseocor oq ued J IO 3 alojaq pepeo,t oq p-e WeyQ Hurrmber ‘’g ToeaeT 3e 
exe J pue o souTqnar pue ‘sear AeTASAO aYyQ UT T[ Tere, 3e oze p-e ‘snuL 
°3F¥ SezTleTyyuyT pue J JO SzUSzUOO SY YYTM Oo SeoRTder JeyUTT oy ‘J 

Uy SUT yNoT e SsTTeo p-e Queues Aue JI ‘UNI aq OF STqeTTeae oq TTTM 
seuTynorgns s3t zeuZ os (ur QYybnoiq uTebe st 37 suITQ yore) aTNpou ayy 
SzTTetzTuyer pue ‘YxSTp worjy o euTANoT peoT ATTeoTzeEuoqne [TT TyUTT syy 
‘@ UT SeUTINOT Teo noA Jy ‘/Queptser ere p-e oeTTuM ‘TSeyUTT euQ Aq apou 
eTbuts e 02 peubtsse ueceq [Te oaey AadyA ‘’snyL ‘suiTz sures oy We Arowpu ut 
qUeptTsez eq prnoys sjusubes ssoyj jo [Te ‘p—e jueuwhes weiboid ut ouTyNor 
Aue [Teo 03 ST uTeul JF WeUQ Bes Ued NOA ‘aAOCKe UOTIdTAOSEp 3suW Woy 


‘poubtsse are Aasy YoTYUM 03 SepouU ey seyoIeUl 
zeuQ atqez AeTxXeao yuNY sey UT puMNojJ are AeyW szrequmU (azeUTPIO’ TaAeT) 
AeTTeaO Yany ayy Yyoreul 02 seyouezq Szt peTeqeT pue ser} ayy UMeIp oaeYy OM 


eH mae as q + oo 3 
Sen 5H nero a 
(ser a4 JO TeAeT 3001) uyeu 


seam zonzys wexrboid sty 10J 9e1Q AeTTeao |auW HutTA_onzrAsuoo AoJ stseq 
ou3 eaey NOA ‘aoeds sures oyQ Hutreys (£ pue T’/y seutTqnomd pue p pue /o’q’e 
JO aoTQeUTquoo ayy se soeds sures oyQ Hbutreys se 6 eufqnoxr Jeptsuoo nok jI 


“unr OF Tepio UT FSyAO sy} YYIAM AUepTsear0oO AroOusUl oq ese 

peou Jeyuyteu scouts ‘J pue o seuTQnol Uuseomjeq adeds Arousul du aTeys ued 
Zebeueul APTTOAO Sy} We SUeOUI STUL ‘Pp IO ‘OD ‘’q ‘’e WOT} peTTeo oq ueo nq 
‘queseid eq 0} © UT butTyAOU spoeou AT ‘/ST 3eYUQ 4a SYTT ST J OUTQINOY “TTeM se 
queptse1—Aroupul eq OF peou Pp pue ’d ’q ’e ‘/uNI aq OF ST 9 UT aUTQNON be JT 
‘snuy, “°J SUTINOT OF dTysuOTWeTar ou sey 3yNq ‘/UTeUl IO ‘/p ’d ’q ‘’e wor; 
PeTTeo oq ued d SUTRINOT 3WeYR SuMSSe ‘/UOCTRITPpe UL ‘UTeU [Teo ued SaTTJ 
esoyy JO yore Wey} pue p pue ’d’q’e [Teo ueo uTeu jeyR Aes -f pue ‘FT 

‘yu ‘Bb ‘43 ‘a ‘Dp ‘do ‘q ’e /UTeUl zSOeTTJ HUTMOCTTOJ ayQ eaey no& asoddns 


aaqaL AVTYAAO NW ONINSISSd 


“MOTTO 3U3 SUOTISS |YR UT TeyZINy pouTeTdxe st sueyyT sseyA Jo yorY 


/~« *“pezeooT st Arjue s, ToquiAs x 
STU} YOTYM 3e YUNY TOqWAS oY} UTYUZIM » 
FOSJJO SYR ST WSJJO aroym ‘(Hy + WSJJO) x/ ‘/xXReSzJJOTOquAS HucT 


Sf ToquidAs sty} YOTYM UF TequnU yonYy ayy »/ fyunpToquiis Huot 


buyufequoo yuny ysATZ ayy Jo Tequnu yuny x/ 
/~ Teast Fey Ze Tequmnu upqT x/ fazeatpro Huot 
/~« 9aqQ SYUj UT Teaet x/ {[TaaeT Huot 
/~« wayt AYTTTqQrzeduwoo °°: Gg Jo anTea e x/ ‘zhuump 6u0T 
/« Waqyt AATTIqryeduioo °-°° OG JO onTea e x/ {TAuMp Huot 
/~« apou STY PUTJF OF STF Syz UT ary »/ fQaszjoyees Huot 
saUNIONULS WLW AWLNE-ATAWL TOMWAS AVTYAAO YNOH 
se7ep HuyMoTTOJ ay JO pestaduoo st ArQue prombuoT-WyhTe yor” 
‘OTT [TTereao su Jo zrted st 3zeyR apou AeTIeAO AeTMOTQIed e Hutqrzosep 
yore ‘sprombucT yybTe jo jes e se pojereueb st aTqez AelTASaAO yuNY syL 


“peqonz3su0 aq pTnoys sary 


STU MOY TSYUTT Oy} [33 pue wexrborid [TeTeAo eYyy JO SeTNpow |apoo snoyzIzeA 
ayy Usenjeq SdTysuoTzelar SYR SsPOSTJor ZeY? sary e pT HNq sf ‘ATTeoTseq 
‘op 3snu nok 3eUM «= OeTFF euQ JO squoubes snoTieA 3y} Ueamjod UOT OeISqUT 
euy SseTpuey (zostazedns AeTTaO ay} peTTeo osTe) Jebeueu AeTTeao syW Moy 
puyu ut deoy ysnu nok ‘skeTreao osn 03 wexhoid e buyubysep exe nod vey 


‘Zeyjoue suo O32 sdTysuOTWeTer Tfey pue syuny 

auy seqTiosep 7eyy em yonIzs elep e suTeqUOO eTqez AeTAeAO YyuNY syL 
‘@pOO STqezeooTar Jo syuny se saTnpoul yoofqo eyZ Jo [Te HutTutequoo aTTJ 
abhre[T suo seonpoid ATTeoyseq TJeyUT, eyy ‘pesn are sheTTeao us 


uoT@dT10seq yunH AeTrTAO 


"uoFzFnaul Aq 
pepraoad 3eyu3 Jo soeTd uy HurTpuey ueeros uMoO ITey; 
asn pue [[eISUF 03 Tezyord Aeu Oym sredoTseAep 107 


uoT#INqU] Hufsn Aynoyztm soaebtuw Hutsna 


*(waqsks STF SYyz OF pezeTer 300) 

soaebtuy 03 noX-saey—-Jeyum JO ‘sysTp—wer 
‘sjeTqe sotydezb ‘sqiod TeTTerzed ‘sz10d [eT1es 
[eucTatppe se shuty yons ppe JedoTaaep e sjeT 


Sodebyurny 0} SoTAep-YSFp-uou seu e UF HufyUPT 


"wo qsks 
HUTTTZ eyy jo y1ed STqesserppe-oureu e se soTAep 
SXTTISTP TO ySTp pxzey e ppe TedoTesep e set 


sodebyuyy 0} SOTAep-NSIG Meu e UT Huyyuyry 


‘suTyoeu Arousul pepue}xo 
ue uo y10mM 30u Aeul apoo werboid ey esTMTeYyIO 
-pepeolt SF 37 ueum sodebtuy Aq exeyz peoetd aq 

Peoput [TTA uoTIouNZ 03 wexrbord ayy I0z (us Asks 
2u3 JO YZIG 3SemMoT oyy) AtouoUl dIHD UT WUepTser 
eq ySsnu ZeYyR eIep pue spoo werboid zeYyR seimssY 
‘S}Tq peoT eqeTidoidde ey3 4s 03 TedoTasep 

@ MOTTe 03 3euNIOJ eTT} Ateutq Mau e UO S¥IOM 


AYTTFAN WOLW 
suwexzhoid efzet reyqo603 bHuyagnd szedoTesep 10g 
uofydtz0seqd yunH AeT7eAao0 
sarey peTeaoo are sofdoj HbuyMo[ [oy suL 
‘azts Arouwsul ZS e puokeq pepuedxe useeq eaey zeYyR STeynduno 
ehTuy YIM UNI 03 Bpoo ITeYyy ysT Aeu oy JO ebtuy sy} 03 peppe aq OF 


SOoTAep Meu |3eazD 0} YysTM Aeul oym ‘TedoTeaep peoueape ay} 02 sere Uy Jo 
aq 0} ATOXTT are FeyR soydoy ufezreo seqyiosep xtpuedde ayy Jo zred STUL 


uoTIeUIOJUL TereueD sodebyuy 


B- 21 


Wes TE 37Q + eQep yuNY = Ysey eIep yuny 
38S O£ 21Q + SQep yunYyY = dTYyo eAep yuny 
WS TE 31qQ + Spoo yuNY = ysey Sspoo yuny 
32S OF ITQ + Spoo yuNY = dFYyo spoo yuny 
iz 7 ae saze souo MoU SUL 
*‘ssq yuny pue /ejep yunYy ‘apoo yuny a1am sedAZ PTO syuL 
: JO peoqsut sedAQ yuny autu eyez MOU TTTM JoyUTT ouL (E 


*adAQ yuny 3eyQ Hbutbueyo Aq ,,Arouwoeul dtyo 10j,, se 

(syuany [Te Xo) syuny partsep ey} HbeTJ [Ita WI *(s)eTTF eolgo 

oy? pue Tosn O43 UFTM JeASIUT TTTM NWOLY « WOLW, PETTeO 
aossecoid (-~sid 10) -—3sod e ybnoryA apoo qefqo eyQ sseg (Z 


A[[euzou stquesse 10 oT tduog (T 
‘SMOTTOJ Se SF UOFINTOS WOLW SUL 
NOILNTIOS WOLW GHL 


*uUOTANTOS STqeydsooeun ue sulooeq ATYOMb [Tt STyYL “NZIS ueyz szou YIM 
souTyoeul UF Unz jou werboid ay} sAPY OF SEM UOTANTOS TYAO SYL 


-Aiououl JO WZIS 

SIT} BYQ OUT peTdoOdS puoocss auQ ‘urexboad zANOA UyAIM pepeoT ASATJ syy 
—iowsaul UT e3ep MOA Jo seTdod omy HutTaey PeaTOAUT STYL °*3T OF eH OF 
Sequtod asn uayQ pue (Aroweu dtTyo) pehuojteq yr aay 03 (ArOuDU ,,3Sej,,) 
PepeoT SeM YT oTEYM wWoAy eWep Adoo pue yes 31q ArOwow drTyo ey YIM 
WaNOOTTW ue Op O23 Sem STU 4QTM HuTTeap jo Aem poepuoumooer ay ‘/ATSnotaedd 


SNOILNTOS SNOLASYd 


“AT Teut0u peoT pue YUTT 34 aeaey azoyareyQ pue we1rzboad 

IyeyZ UF eIep JayjO Aue ayTT ysnf e_ep sTYyZ Jeor} OF WUeM OSTe ASUL 

‘37 Sseode UPD SdTYyO WOoISNd 3Yy 37eYR OS (NZISG ysaTy oYyQ) ArouKU dIHD OUT 
ob weiboid afeyy jo sqied 3eyy Ajpoods 03 eTqe oq OF 4UeM SiSUMeIbOId 


°9sn SIF OF 
SOATIeUID}Te pue ‘/poqUSWSTdUIT Useq Sey YT YOTYM UT JOUUeU BYQ /ATORSTY 
quoudoTeaep s3t butpntout ‘AATLTTAN NOLW Sy SeqTrOSep qQueuMoOp STYL 


(TeTJTpoW qoofqo Arezodupl, YUTTW) ‘WOLW 


"peqeooT ATTenQoe sf Autod ArWUe ay} YyoTYyA ye yuNY ey JO W7eAS 

OY? WOT} YsSJJO ay SMOYS F-XJeSzJOTOquAS  ‘ToquAS sayz BzeOOT OF 
yuny YOTYM UT SMOYS YUNHTOQUIAS aL °3T PepeoT sey IO pepeo, Apeoerye 

_ ST 3P pouTuajep sey JoyqtTe WI aouo Autod A1rque 3syW aQeooT ATTenjoe 
023 dJabeuew AeTzeao ay Aq poesn are sjToquds ayy IOj Sef1qUe eTqez sseyL 


XLASAAOTORWAS CUNY YNNHIOGWAS 


“ToquAs pertsep ayy buyufequoo (s)yuny syy yytm AeTTeAO 07 woor 

oyeul o2 ‘syuny pTTeaut Aq pesn Aroupu ey Seay 03 Aresssosau suloo0eq 

TUTM 3F /(epou quezaind 9Yy3 JO PTTYO TeAeT-3xeu /ZOeATp e ST YF SseTun) 
SEUTPIO pue [2AeT FUSTSJJTp e We peTTeo ST suTANOT e USM ~*TOquAS 
STYW SUTeRQUOCD Wey} Spou oy} pepeoT sary OF ASprO UT PepeoT useq sey 
4snul qeuy yUNY [TeTITUT ay SeTytToeds WI ‘apou e Hutpeotun usys robeueu 
Kej{zaa0 ayy Aq pesn sft etqez Toquds AeTASAO SYA UF SNTeA YUNHTeTIFUT OyL 


MNOHTIWILINI 


‘apou Be JO Jepeay yuny ayy Jo a7kq ASITF BYyW OF AUTOd 

0} dsUTINOI (AesjjJO 97Aq ‘STTJ)Yees SYR OF USATH Bq UPD WeYQ ONTeA 
qeu} ST TequmU yasyjo Yyeos oyYL ‘“Ssepou AeTIeAO |Yy} Jo [Te Huyufequoo 
@Uty abuts aebhbre{ e splinq TeyuTT AeTAsMo ayy ‘/Tat[ree peyyfoeds sy 
JeSjJJO Yyoos ay Sf eTqez AeTIAO SYR UF Spou YyoORe JOJ OnTea ASIT} SYL 


DNONOAW LaSdiO Wags 


‘aTqez ToquAs AeTTeaoO yuUNY sy UT sQeUTpIO yunYy ay} pue 
TEAST epou yuny eyQ jo ufFhbT10 ayy pouTeTdxe saey syderbexed aaoge oyL 


‘UMOP [TAA2T BUO ’H OF poqzeTar aq O02 

uMOUS are J pue y sowenN  ‘ATSNooueZ[NUTs YyIOq Jou ynq ‘/QUapTsez ATOUSU 
2q ITT 6 io p-e JayzTe 3ey ASYUTT Vy HuTT {93 ‘p-e se [aasgT sures ayy 
UO peTEepTsUoOd. ST 3T OS ‘ySTZJaYse ou sey 6H oureu sy], “Satz sy Jo AoOr 
ayy 03 JasoTO HbuTyyhue 10 p-e yhbnoazayy ATuO eTqtssaooe pue ‘p-e wry 
UMOP T@AST 3XoU ey UO YAOCW are ssey yey Aes J pue do Jo AUOTJ UT 
SYSTIayse ayy pue ’(T TeAeT eseo STYy UT) TeAeT UaATH e Ye Spou aTbuts 
e Jo z1ed are p pue /o ’q ’e 3eYA JOYUT[ SyQ STH} UOTIAdTAOSEp STYyL 


Tw 

Us 

6 

Ix 

Ox 
p/o’q’e 
AWTYaAO 


23TFNq aq O02 eAOge aInbyTz ayR 

asneo 7euW SsquoUezeIS yUTT AeTTAO Jo souenbes ayQ ST araH “eTqez 
@pou yuny 2aY43 UT Aeadde pue jJTesz_T AeyUTT ayA Aq ATTeTAuenbes poubtsse 
are ‘aaoqe aImmbTj ey} UT poqOU sSsOYyR OF AeTTWIS ‘SENTRA TeoOTTeUMU OYyL 
aanzonz4Ss S3T ynoqe AayuTT AeTzAeao ay} Hut[ ye Aq sary syA azearo Nno4z 


a4auL FHL ONIETYOSad 


‘[ requmu yyTM uTebe utieq szequmu azeuTpIO 
aU ‘TaAeT WeATH e JOJ ‘apouqns yorsa Jo Yyouerq yore UTYITM WeYZ OST 23ON 


*zO4seouR Ue ST UTeU BSNeoeg ‘/UTeUl UT SoUTANOAT [Teo ued do 
qnq ‘ATJeITp & [Teo Jouued uTeU ‘ST WeYL “Spou PTTYD AeorTp 
@ UT SOUTINOT OF IO (pozeOOT ST Bsn UT AOU SUTINOT |YyQ YOTYA UT 
apou eyQ jo s10j}seoue 3y3) JQueptTsaz Arowou ATQueTIND are 
qey3 Sepou JaYyAO UT seUTINOI O03 ATUO STTeO wiojzed ued sUTANOT YW *370N 


‘UOTINOSXS IJOJ popeoT pue 


B - 22 


:buTMoTTOJ ayy edAQ WY 

dfyo oquy ob 03 SyunYy Ssq pue ezep pue WY OTTGnd OQUT Ob 
syuny epoo [Te asned OL, “WOLW JO obesn uoumoo ATATej e 
ST HULMOTTOJ oyQ ‘azojereyy ‘Arowsul dtyo ut peortd aq 

03 peou op syuny Ssq pue WLW SewyqQowos *ArOUU dTYyo 

Uf syuny 3dGOO aoeTd 03 peou OU ST aley seseo sou UI 


2T# oTduexg 
SSTdWWXI ANI GNWWNOO 


syuny ssq ebueyd d 
syuny wLvd abueyd a 
syuny gqdoo ebueyo 3 
(eTqeTreae 
Azoursul Jo adAQ Aue) ,ofTqQnd,, 03 Azousw shbueyoD d- 
LSWd 03 Arousw sbueyD d- 
dIHO 03 Arzoueu obueyoD ao 
STTF Pe yoauod oyz AOJ UOTWeUTASOSp SUL <OTFFINOD 
“@TTF ooefqo ue 
WOLW-er ued nok ‘seK) penolw JO peTquesse 
‘pettduoo yasnf ‘aTty yoofqo ue squeseidey <®TTJUF> 


({aja|o]d-) ({alajo)a-]) (f{ala]a)d-] <eTts4yno> <OTTFUT> WOLW 
— JO — 


{I-] <@TTJNO> <STTIUT> WOLW 
Sf xequds SUTT puUeUMICD SUL 
XWINAS SNIT GNWNNOO NOLW 


"WOLY Aq peTyTpow swezho1d 
auTuexs O23 YSTM NOA JT pepeen ({[°¢Z uotszea) FCqoduma 
*YSFGWVOI SOG AOJ (AOYT AO [°[ oseoejtey) 4yreqsyoTy 
(ioezeT JO O€"°€ UCTSIEA) YUTTW 
(12a}3eT AO O°T UOTSI2aA) NOL 


:JO Setdoo 
OTqrTzeduoo-[T°{ aseeTey peou noX ‘/zreyAehoR yAomM OF STYyQ JO TTe Web OL 


INGAWNOULTAND SNDIYOM 


‘wou uO UNI Uaeq Sey WOLW Tee SETTJ UO yIOM AOU TTTM GNWO pue Cqodump 
JO suotsiaa (az0joq pue O°TA) PTO ‘Arourwu ybnoue jou-—¢0[ AOI oq [TTA 
3Mser sy *USUTIOATAUS 31LISYOTY O° TA © UF PeOT OU TTTM ,Swerzbold Mon, 


°°°QTpe ‘3S93 

‘aqnoexe ‘/YUTT /(1899TTQ ay Aq pepesU SulBzT SUTeIUOO e}ep IO apod STU} 
JT) WOLW ATTeuoTQdo ‘aTIdwod ‘3yITpe :saulodeq Usayy aTOAD JueudOTEAep YUL 
“¥STIP :Wvu ebzreT e Jo abequeape aye} pue ouTYyoeu ArOubU pepuezxe ue UT 
werboid peyutT—T anoA unz yj0q ued no os seTty Woefqo pertmber mej oy} 
WOLW 032 Quem Aeu nod ‘autyoeul yzZIc< e uo QueudoTesaep (ebtuy) eatzeU 10g 


*(ansg pue ‘Wal ‘ebjtuy) sjucuuorfaus 


gery} TIe AOJ TTeM SyIOM STUL °3S99 pue (y¥ZTG<) ArOwoU [Teura}XS ppe 
‘yuTTW ‘NOLW ‘aTtTdwoo ‘QTpe nod usyL ‘aseatar 03 4noge are nod TLINN-—- 
‘QTpe /4S03 ‘aqndexe ‘/yUuT_T ‘aTTdwoo ‘AT po—amou aaey noA dooT sures 3uy 
XLLOWXA MOTTO} PTNoOo suyTYyoeul yzIS e uo HutAseQq pue juoudoTeasp we1rbo0ig 


“PTOY T1IT9S UOT ISS 

STU JO Hbutuutbeq ayQ We poUOcT USUI SUOTANTOS SnoTAeid ay, *poummerboid 
Ajaood jt ‘Azouwouwl popusayxe ut Hutyseito sepnTouTt sTuL “Jaane se [em se 
uni ITT WOLW ybnozyy uni uaeq OU saPeYy 3eYyQ SweiboOId pue ‘suOoTqdO Mou 
2u3 YYTM PeTquesse 1O peT{Tduioco useq 4ou saeYy 3eYUQ Sueibold ‘sure1bo1id pToO 


LOWdWI CAaATaONdd 
‘posn ATAuUeTIMSD YOU ST YI‘ pepseu 


se ‘uoTsuedxe ainjynj 1oJ pearesad St STYL ‘PIOM 
HuoT Stuy HuTMoT[ [OJ eTqeTTeae uoTIeUIojuT e13zxa 


ST ore ‘Jes YROq ore OE3TA pue TE¥td JI TT T 
“{rTey zo ‘Arowouwl gIHD 7eb Asnui zepeol [ 0 
*‘TtTezy zo ‘Aroueuwl ISwd 7eb ysnul Japeol oO TT 
*AIOUOU LS¥4I 03 UeATH ST aduerTajairg 
“aTqTyeEdwOO ,,SpreMyoeq, ST STYR ‘OTqeT}eae ST 
Azousul JaAs}euM Yoeb usyQ AES ST 3Tq ASeUQToU JI 0 
A 


0 
1 
dIH) IWAN Of9Ta —+ 
asvd dWaN = T€3¥a ———-++ 


>SMOTTOJ Se 

pouTjoper useq sary SqTq SYL ‘pesnun are sqtq om} Jeddn ayq ‘sauTyoeu 
aoeds ssoippe 43Iq-ze Hhutpnjout ‘armnynj sTqesesazojJ ayy AOJ /aTOjorSYL 
‘yony ouy UT SpioM Jo Jequmu oy HuTuTeqQUOD pPIOM e ST azTs yuUNY SUL 


WOM SLIG GHL MOH 


*SUOTINTOS TEYyAO apTaoizid OF TorQUOD JeumrerbHoAad azapun sedhk3 
yuny Meu 3uQ aQerTeUeb 03 pobueyo oq Aeu ,,d, BOTWWeT. pue TeTquesse oyL 


SNOILNTOS GuNnLNad 


(Axowsur ybnouse jou ‘EQT AOIIS) peoT you pue yuNYy ebreT AYA & Se 
sedk3 yuny Mou oy} JeId1SqUT [TTA YsaWVOI ey} JO SUOTSIAA PTO (GS 


*adA3 Arournul poRJeuHTsep ayy OfUT Ob [TIM syunH ‘aaocge 
(¢ days worj UofT zeuUOjuT 03 HuTpxAoooe peoT TTT AusdWOT SeUL (F 


°(°°* “suoTqereTOSp eTqetTzeA ‘sAerze) ejep 

peztTTeTytutun peuteqzuoo syuny ssq pue /(°°*’squeqysUuOD) e3ep 
PeZTTeTITUT UTeqUCO syuNYy WLVd ‘ebenbueT euTyoeu (00089) 
@Tqeynosexe uTeJUOCO syuNYy FdOO Wey} UuOoTReJUSUMDOP TSYUTT 
ayy UT peptTaocid uoTReutojUyT sy worAjy [Teoer Aeul nox 


*bUTPeOT USYyM UOT euTIOJUT Tepeoy 
yuny oy} sesn YSQWVOI eyuL *(Aressadou JT HutQeTnNbeoo) 
‘UACWOI B43 03 YbnozyA sedAZ yunY [Te ssed T[}M TOYUTT oyL 


es TE 37Q + Ssq_yuny=  4seF ssq yuny 
WS Of FIN + SSq_yuny= dTfyo ssq yuny 


B - 23 


a [N/A] ESIOGWAS AWIdSIAd 

SITANd NOILWOOTIY AYNOWN 

{yuny ezep :330N} WLW AdAL MNOH 
SNON SNWNNNNH 

0000 SNWN LINO 

3 (d]O|4) eadAL AYOWRN 


{3xeu Moys 


‘pexutT eze Asyy arzojoq ‘yuny sty3 dtys} yuny 3XeN JOJ N 
ZTeTquessy O1OeWN IO ToT Tduoo 5d ayy Aq peonpord seTTy {ybnory 3T 
q0efqo 943 UO WOLW UNI O23 peoU Nox, ‘pe ze TMbeoo syuny sessed qsn{ ‘etTty ayq jo 
pue poaouler useq aaey sToqudAS Teureyxq ‘TeyuTT oy Aq 3SazI sy ebueyo jou seop} dnputa 02 M 
pessoooid ueeq Apeer[e sey petyytoods nok eTtj Andut sus {(pezeerdD ST STTF Andyno 
?¥NITw ubnoryy pessed useq Ou ‘uoT{eredo ayy STsoUuerd} amb 02 O 
JON @eaey 2243 SeTTJ Uo pesn oq ATuO ueo ARTTFAN sTYyL roy - OFTqnd Ioj d 
°adA3 Atoupy -—— dtyd Joy Oo 
*qdnii0o eq Aeu aTtz Wefqo *yndut - 3Sej IO} J Je WS sseatd 
Huyzoedxe [T}T3S Sem WOLW STTYM peqosjzep sem (ejep 
JO 3NO) UOTZTPUCO STTJ JO pus UW ‘aTTJ JO pus aun zeuw!ad 1017y {djay toy ysenber :a30N} ¢ [d|5|d] ¢adAL AYOWSW 
°3dn1100 aq Aeul STT} yeflqo ‘edAR peutyepun "*suTeul” 
ue jO J} UOTITUTJep JO soUarTejerl [Teulayxy ‘SsTeureyXgpeoy 101719 *JquTid— 
**Z7@dXoO 
‘eqep Aue ute_zUOoO WOU SeOp aT} Anduy :ynduy Aqduyg 1z017y *JAoox 
-“aseq 
"3dni100 eq Aeul eT fF Wofqo syL ‘“eztTubooar you seop K (N/X] éeSIOGWAS AWTdSId 
3F 3ey3 edAQ yuNY e pe_oSjep sey WOLW #4 oedkL ped 10171g 
OITGNd NOILWOOTTW AYOWAN 
“peqyeeto oq 37OU Ue OTTA {yUNY Spoo 79830N} ad00 adAL 3YNNH 
*OTTFINO peg AOI ‘NON GAWN YNNH 


Woud GAWN LINO 
*punoj 300 eTTa 
*O9TTJUI peg zomg O°TA YGIAIGOW LOardoO WOINY 
J— Woes‘wory O' WOT wWORe <Z 
*e193903790 


I-— 03 UOTITppe ut petiddns x- (p *butuutbeq ayy ut peysenbez 
*d JO a ‘D ‘I Aq pomoTTos 30 ,-, (O sem djTay 2ey} S30N “SyUNYy SSq OU aTem aTeYyL ‘“dIHO 
stojourezed Jo requmu buoim (q O32 30S ST yunNY ezep ayy ‘ISWA OF WES ST YyUNY apoo 
u-n @ UTM QIe9S Jou Seop UOT Ado Ue (e ou} STduexe STYy} UI ‘eased rAeddn ut sft 3ndQno Aaqnduwo 
:sbaw peq r011g ‘ase TOMOT UT ST Andut Jesn ‘oaTduexe aATIORIEQUT ue ST STUL 
>SMOTTOJ Se are NOLW Aq po qereueb sohessoul A017e sy [>% oTduexg 
Sa9USSEN YOUN po— O°3eS°aTTzAU O-aTTJAW NOL 
“<p sad} Arousul dtyO O2UF peotT 02 SsyuNY e7ep [Te 3S OL 
< 
d [(d|d|/4) ¢3dX4L AYOWIN '€# oTdurexg 
K [N/A] ¢€S'IOGWAS AWIdSIa D- ([qo-aTTyyno Cqo-aTTjuT WOLW 
OITHNd NOILWOOTIW AYOWAW _ sHhUTMOTTOF ayy odAQ Axowsw dtyo o7uT 
SSG ddAL SNOH pepeolt oq 03 aTTJ Wolqo ut syuny suy [Te assneo OL 
YJNON SNYNDINNH 
0000 SWYN LINO :U# aTdurexg 


2 [d|d|4] ¢adXL AYONRN qpo- od_ fqo’attyqno Fqo-aTtsut WOLW 


B - 24 


‘pertsep se YSTp Suz uoTITIIed 03 Ssrequmu TepuTTAD yseybtTy pue YSeMoT ayy 
jas pue Sepou SOTAep arou IO om} ayeul nod ‘ysTp prey e uoTFTyed OL 


*Tenuey soueteyey TeoTuyoaL sodebTuw ey3 ut 

peqtzrosep 4IST[T JO puty eyQ peeysUt st ynq ‘TenueW soUSsTejoy [Teuzey WOU 
ebTuy syQ JO uoTzI0d dexYg syQ UT peoUeTeyor ST 3eY YSTT JO puTYX owes 
oy3 OU ST STejarI STyQ YOTYM O03 ASTT eYyW :HuTuremM ‘sammyonzysqns 
OJUI SYR UTYZIM Sepou sotTaep jo (SULdA [1Te eTe SPTETJ XEN 3UQ 

@30U) 4STT ayy JO pue sl OF poYyoezje oq Asnu apou sodtaep ouy ‘AT TeuTaA 


(SsyOOTq eyoRo Jo Tequmu HuTzeoTpuy ‘azou 10) G 
zequnu 
(ystp AddoTj az03 61 ‘°6'a) aeputTsd ysoubTH 
Zequnu 
(gq ATucuMIOD) ZeputTAdD 34seMoT 
IO{LJ BALaTI9VUI 0 
1IOAeLJ UOTIeOOTTeeAd 0 
(q7e9S 3e poATOSeT oq OF 
SYOOTA JO Tequnu HuTzeoTpuy ‘azoul 10) f 
your tad 


(ystp AddoT3 zoz TT ‘°6-a) SYOOTC JO ASquNN 
YyOOTq Ted siozoes Jo TequMN T 
(ystp AddoTj roy zZ ’°b°a) soorejins jo zTequmn 


(QIaZ AOJDSS ST 


103998 3SATJ /°a°T) UuTHTIO 103deS 0 

(azTsyootq e74q-zTs 5uyumsse) 
spiom Huocl Ut eZTs YooTq yxSsTtd 82T 
eTqey jo ezts TT 


SSPTOTJ PAOMbucT HuYMOTTOJ Sy} SUTeRUOO UOT ZeULIOJUT SZTS YSTP SYyL 


UoTeEULIOJUT YSFP OF Uldd — 

(0/,0./:0,/,H./p ‘°5°a) ZUNOD ayW UT 

pepnTouy st yeyR ezAq TInu e Aq po zeUtulTe}? eq ySnw YOTUM 
‘aureu I®ATIP soTAep ayy OF Uldd e se peroORS ‘oureu IOATIp soTAad — 
(ofaZ TUN esn you Op) JequmU yTUN — 


:HUTMOTTOJ ey UTeUOO 
2eUQ SpzrOMbucCT seazUuy 03 ULdd e& JO SYSTSUOCO UOTJeUIOJUT STYL ~“(pepsou sTSYyA 
SULdd@ BSN 03 Jequeusl ‘uTebe) uoTZeuojuy dn-zreWs ayW dn Aas ysnui nok /3xXEN 


/*« ASTTb38s weyshkseTty st Aerrybes ut quewstTea party «/ ‘[€]3STI = Thes 

/» Kermybes wory 13d outyoeul oyeul x/ /Z% >> ( AsT{bes ad‘ yseq ) = ISTT 
/* WOd MoTeq St ainjzonzys yseL x/ 

!(ysey, 3onIT4S) JoozTs—31z0d) (4 yseL WonTAS) = yse} 

/« 4sey wayskseTty Jo yod Hsu samyzey s/s /(,,70dd, )OOTde0TASd = 310d 


{qaods aLxGn 
sasodind sty} TO} pesn oq Wed SMOTTOJ 7eY Spoo sUL 


*syseq woqysks HuTTtTJ 
au} JO aUO JO aseq ssaooid sy UT PTETJ e sseooe ysnu NOA ‘STYW UTe QO 
OL “yse} weqsks HuTTTJ ayy JO ASTT queuwbes syW oq ysnu YSTT[bes sy 


*HBUTMOTTOJ Sraez,OeTeYO 3yy 
pue ‘a74q 4SITJ auy UT HuTrWS ayy Jo YQHueT ayA se poqueseider (:0QdH se 
yons) asdTAep meu amok jo oureu ayQ 03 Je qUTOd Tddd@ & ST oureu © OF ULSA SUL 


oureu 0} ULSd 

103A TeQOTO 0 
3st bes 

ojyuy dnzzeys 03 Uldd 

XAytI0TId OT 
@zTSsyoerys OTZ 
ZeTpuey 0 
YOO] 0 
yxSeL 0 
BOFASP 3D 0 
3XON 0 


:SPTOTF HUTMOTTOJZ Oyz UTA Spou mau ayZ JoNTISUOD 


-om3 Aq QubTI peqstys /(uewooTTw Aq peuinjzer 

se yons) uoTtzeoo,T Azowsul poubtTe-prombuoT auios 03 AezUTOd suTYyoeU e 
‘(Tenueyq aouerejeay TeotuyoeL sodebtuy eyy UT peqtrosep se) Uldd 

adX3 ay jo are sxzaqUTod ysou zeYQ ajou ‘/uOoTIdTAOSap Hutmo[ To} ey 10d 


“IOATIP YSTpyoezr syy IOJ peqrtazosep 
se Xem oures oyuQ UT UOTReEUIOJUT SNzeIS UINJeT pue ‘ys0S ‘azTIM ‘peor 
se yons spueumioo 03 puodsar 03 AQTITqe syy epnTouT ysnuiqrI = * (Tenueu 
Teurey NOW ehTuy ey} UT peqTIOsep) asoTAep ysTpyoez3 ayQ Aq poulrojied 
are 2euQ STTeO SsyQ OTWTU YSNUI SOTASep YSTp Mou e AO} ABATIP SOTASP VW 


‘@OTAOP YSTP MOU SY OJ JEATIP soTaep e 3zTIM OSTe 
qsnu nox *Tenueul TeoTuyoaL, soqebTuy ayy JO T°¢"€ UOTIDES UT peqTIOsep 
Se apouU BOTAep sou e YONTASUOD Asnu NOK ‘adTASp YSTp Mou e 9zeAaTO OL 





SooTaAed {STA MeN Hbuyyen 


B - 25 


| sotaspuedo TTe am UsYyM 37 OVUT // 
So06 7WeUM BES UeO aM WeYUQ OS ASITJ YOOTC syQ arezZ // 


¢61e-3ydi qyd-ured = apou IAI 


qnd3znoputz*qoe To yndutTputz-yoe YIM // 
,pouedo,, Ueeq SPY SdTAVp TJoeyAoYyA MoYys 03 HeT3 -// ASIWd = uedo LAI 


n0OXs90TASP’ TeTI9S,, = oUeUASP LIT 
aSTWi = dodo {aT 


@ZTSYOOTQ’OI OHA = OCAOI LIT 
OZISYOOTQ’OI DAA = AOL IFT 
Tse2r°3yd OFA = 2yxd9qnNO LAT 
Tser°3yd OFA = QydUT LAT 


phre-3ydiqyd-ured = Hurz4susdo LAT 


O = qyxd°aQqTIM LAT 
O = 34d‘peer LaT 
gbre*qydiqyd-uured = OjuTerqXxXe LAT 
$ 
gq (3yd-ured)q1e3s La 


($ 

YOOTT OI SeoTaep JO azts // OE = eZTSyYooTq"ol 
I$ 
LSITINWW 


@pou OJUT BOTASP OF Uldd = chre-yydiqyd-ured // 

(pepseu JT) OjJUT e13xe = zbre°qydiqyd'ued // 

(.2T5S,) °a°F ‘eweu sotTaep jo butz3s TddOd OF Uldd = Thaze-zydiqyd-ured // 
“bUTMOTTOF ayy // 

suTeqUOD joyoed Je jourered ay ‘pejearoO ST ysez ayQ usey // 


*Y¥SPJ, UOJTSYS e AJOJ TSeTpuey e st sTyL // 


etdHOdXxd, Lad 
wtGHNVW Lad 

wiGHOI,, LAS 
wJOHaIT, Lad 


wSqueysuoo Thyesn Hhututequoo seTfJ epntoul,, // 


*‘Ioiie ue se poyreul are sedAQ AQoyored rse370 

*sqsonbel 3o3TIM pue peat aoTaAap ay} ORUT Sysenbet asOTD pue /3QTIM ‘peasy 
‘uadO WISAUOD OF ST AaTpuey soTAep sy Jo qof uTeu sy, “Teedde [TT 
HUTMOTTOJ syQ se YONS auTINOT UuOoATEYXs e “TdOd UT HUTITAM are NOA JI 


*TeuTey ayy wory pessed Aoayoed [etyTUT syQ O23 rEqQUTOd 
JTdog e& HhutpToy Td Jeystber yAIM poe zreyYs oq [TT noA ‘abenbueyt A[quesse uy 


CN 
pesn TeqoTb ysoyubTH tT mod 
3atod Arjuae Jo yesSjJJO oTnponyreys—qutodéArjug =6T°dd 

T TeqoIp eutyed Tt od 

rayreu pug Oo ‘°od 

Arepunoq piom— 02 ubTTW v‘0 dOND 


(apoo ano&) econ 


‘se* QuTogArjUg 
SPIOM[ UT @TNpou Jo eztTs F%/(aeTnpowqyzezs-eTnponpud) Tod STNpowzzeys 


‘azay peqrrosep se zeuloy sures sy sAeY YSnUI UOTIOSS yore 
qnq ‘suoTqoes ssq@ pue wlvd esn Aew nod zeyR SION “MOTE UMOYS Se 3oq 3SNuI 
UOTIOSS Spoo ayy JO euoy ay ‘ebenbuey ATquesse ut Hut{AtTazaa are nok ji 


*K[QOeLTIOO YIOM [TIM Teurey oy Aq pesn butyUTT otueukp oy 7euW 
Somnsue STUL ‘@TNpoul Tdda & SYTT YOOT 03 ebenbueT ATquesse uT uazzTIM 
ST 10 [ddd UT UezATIM ST YOTYM ‘aTNpOUl epood e ayeeTD YSNul nok /y¥I0OM 
O} UOTAeZT[TeTATUT sseooid pue HuypeoT oF zeuoyne sty UPA noA jI 


-pIaTy ASTIbes ayy sozepdn pue pet} sueueTTA eyy UT UeaTb sureus[ ty 

OY} WOTJ apoo ayR SpeoT TeUTEY ay} /OTSezZ ST PTET STUA JI “PTETF ASTIbes 
au} UT pooeTd st XeqUTOd queubes apoo ay ‘pepeoT Apearte st apoo sy} 

JI ‘O%OZ ST amyonIAs OjuTAed ay} UT PTETF YSeL ayy Fey SaoTzou Teurey 
au ueUuM ATTROTZeUOINe peTpueYyY ST STYUL ‘“PpeodUeTEyeI YSATJ ST YT uSYyM 

31 IoJ ssacoid meu e a3earD pue TeTpueYy ay} JO apoo ayy peoT OF ydulH}7e 
TITM Tauzey sodebtuy ey pue ‘/Tddd UT UezQTAM ATTeulIou st STYL ‘wexrboid 
uoTeoTTdde ue pue aodjTaep AMOA UsaMjod SoejIS UT SY SF ToTpuey SoTASp oyL 


oueN soTAed 

pormber 10309A T[eqoTD 

(apoo ayy peoT nok JT oxezuou) yYsTIbes 
uoTIeUIOJUT dnz7reAsS 

poirtnber ART10OTId 

portnber eztsyorqs 

@poo TeTpuey jo oureueTta 

YOOT 

(moTeq oes — pf sse0oid 10) yYyseL 
QOFASp 3D 

3XON 


coco kez kook 


‘Q2OTS SuUeUeTTA ayy UT pooe,Td ST TeTpuey soTaep 

quapTser-ystp amoX jo oureu eTTJ ayy pue /o1ezZ ST OTS YSTT Queues ayy 
‘quem noX butyqdue eq ueo Queumbie dn-zreYs |syA 7eYyR qda0xe ‘a0TASp YSTp 
Mau & AO} ROTS OJUIAed e& HuTzZeaeTO 02 TeTTWTS ST STYL ‘“sOTAep Meu INCA OJ 
aainzonzrWS spou sotTaep eTqezIns e Huyyeero Aq poeTpuey SF UoTzeTTeAsUyT STYUL 


*sommjonms sodebtuy 33 

O4UT 37 Hut{TTeysut pue (saoTAeq pue SeTTeIqTT ‘:TenueW soUSTejoy [eurey 
WON ebtuy oes) TIeTpuey sotaep aTqeziIns e HuTzTIM SeATOAUT ssaooid sTuL 

“a0Taep sodebtuy ue se aTqeT}Teae sofAep Mou STYF SYeU YSNU noAé ‘puooas 


"saoTaed pue SeTIeIqrI ‘:TenueW souerejey TeuTey NOU 

ehTuy Oy} UT peuTe_QUOS ST adTAep AUepPTSeI-ysTp UoJeTays e buTzeero 

IO} apoo syL %2830N ‘“aTey pesserppe jou ST yey sseooid e ST YOTYM 
‘goTaep STqez Ns e o}zeeTD Ysnu NOA ‘Asi~_Z ‘“alay peaToauT are sdozs OM] 


*pouztsouoo ST SOd se rey 

SO 2S, OXFT 3snf oe OF ST YOTUM ,,?7US, Poweu asodTaep e HuTzearo aq 

Xeu nok ‘aseo styy ur °310d Tattered mou e Io Yod TeTies Mou e se Yyons 
‘QOTAap MOU & Ppe OF UOTICULIOJUT STYR VSN OF QULA PTNOM NOX “SeT1Oe1Tp 
pozetToosse ITayQ UFIA SeTTJ 2yT1M pue peat 0} asn Ued SOT eR S8dTASp 

‘st qeyu3—(systp AddoTj ‘sysTp-prey) sedytAep pozelet—ueysAs-oeTTjJ butppe 
qnoqe uoTzeUOJUT saptTaord uot ZOas yxeU eyYL ~“woeysks buTTTJZ Sod ey 

JO qed Rou are WeyQ SseopAap Huyppe ynoge uoTZeulojuT sapfacid uofFIoes STYL 





soaebTuy ZJepun uny 03 soyaed AON e but QeaID 


B - 26 


‘@aoge peqyizosep se ‘pepeo, ST apoo uSsYymM sUOp ST STUY esnedsqg 

‘Qpou SOTASp ayy OJUT PT Ssedcad ayQ yIesUT 02 peou WOU SZ90P apod Dg -aacge 
@Tduexse oy UT peqTzOsSep se uey} eTpuey pue STTeO aSOTD pue ‘azTIM ‘peoy 
‘uado TO} 3TeM UaYyy PTNoYS sseooid JeTpueYy eYyL “PeATOAUT BOTASp ayQ Jo 
Zequmu ytun ayy se sbuty} yons utTejUOS yYybTW ebessoul sTuUL ‘po zTeIs 3T Web 
0} ssa001d Meu ayy 03 ebessoul e pues USeYyy ysnu NOX ‘arnzoNIAS OjulAed auy 
JO PTaTs YSeL Sy UT per0OJS oq PTNOYS [Teo STYyR WoIJ Y[NSeI aYyL *ssaD0id 
2 a3eaID 0} DO0Tge}eaID OF TTeO e aSN pue JTaesImMoA apoo ayy peoT ysnu nok 
f/aseo STU Ul ‘Teurey ayy Aq poptaoid uoT}eAaIoD Sssedoid pue peoT OTJeUDINe 
ou esn Qouued nod /D UT AeTpuey sofTaep ANOA |3FIM 03 YSTA NOA JI 


($ 
( apoorzze ‘/T- ‘d)qydusznjexz 
aSTa 
( uat /d)3yduimmyzex 
1o1z@ ON // NSHL 0 = epoorre ISaL 
¢( Tenqoe°oO! ‘GOI )HuoTAeb = UeT LAT 
IOII9'O GOI = epoorzre LAT r 
aq ( d ‘qol)umjar-atpuey aNw 
‘abessoul Sin{Ttej/sseoons YIM peuInyexz eq ysnu pue ‘d se pessed // 
ST Weyoed Asenbez zesn syL ‘ysenber oO] Hutumjer e stpueH // 


($ 
( d3 ’gor)oIpues 
( zynq ‘eqep’ol ‘aOI ) HuoT3nd 
(0 ‘ebare-qydidz ’¢ ‘pueumoo ‘gol )013eS 
¢ebre-qydjdz = uUeT LAT 
zoae-qydjdx = Jjnq LaT 7 


aq ( dq ‘dz pueumoo ‘gor)ysenber’atpuey anv 
*¢/zbxe ut yjbueT{ pue Teyjnq sutequoo dz -(d1i) qeyoed ysenbor pue // 
(dq) qayoed uOCTSsSTwsuezy ‘pueuMloo pesseg ‘*3Senber1 OJ] ue a[puey // 


($ 
( dOI Je0TaaqesoT[S 
uoTqeuyuaL // 


0 = 34duF | 0. = 34d3no | ado aoe ($ 
uedo sseTun pt ssecoid aacupy// O =: ySe}°Aapjepou og uedo SsyINN 
* LTNWAgd 


dOOl 

0 =: 34d3no 

(qydqno/d/a371M° 901 ‘O01 )3Senber ‘aTpuey 
d =: qyd°aqTIM 


qsoenber 303714 y // 7,M, ASWO 


a 
0 =: 3¥duT 
(qydut /d/ pear ’d01 ‘d01 )senbe1 *sTpuey 

d =: 3yd°peez 


4sonbez peor yw // 7.u, gSWO 
dOO!l 
(34d °9a9 TIM‘ O01 )UINzJer‘aTpueY 
Hutuimnzer ysonber 3371m // 389 71M'30e ASYO 
dOOl 
(34d ‘ peez’OgOI )uINnzar‘aTpueY 
d =: 3yduT 
Huytumye1 ysenber pesay // :pear'qoe aswo 
doo! 
(anuL/d)3yxdummyer 


aSTWai =: uado 
@pou sOoTAaep WOIZ pT sseooid saocuRpy // 0 =: ySe}'Aepjepou 


easoTD // :pua*zoe gswoO 
($ 
dOOI 
(anu /d)3ydumyzex 
BaTORIE{VUI // ANUL =* PT'qosiqos 
anuL =: uedo 


jhre*3yxdid = qos LaT )§ 
:gndjnoputj*30e gsWwO 
uedo // :qnduypuytyz°3oe gaswo 


$ 
OQINI 3dX9°3x4did NOHOLIMS 


()atTeaysez = d LaT )$ 
quaaa ue 10j HuytyTem doo, yeedexr uTeu ayy St STUL // 
( anu, ‘3yd‘ured )3ydurmmyjez 
-**yoeq pues’ *-jeyoed rejourered yt poystuTa // 
@pou soTAep OUT PF sseooid zresul // ()pryse} =: ysez‘Aapjapou 
pear'30e =: adh3°3ydi3yxdUT 
O371m'30e =: adk3°9y4di 74d qNno 
FiGOI =? FIOGOI Od SZTSYSOTQ’OI OL O=F Yds 
"003 Tayynq yndyno ayQ 03 osuT Aresseoeu ayy TTe Adoo If 
($ 
uinjzaz 
(asnutqoef[qo’ 10170‘ gaSTwa’ 34d “ured)zydurnzer )§ 
NSHL 1OrTI9 dI 
GAUL =: JOIIO NAHL O = ( O ‘0 ‘oureuaap ‘GOI )aotTAaquedo JI 


O =? FiGOI OD SZFSYOOTA*OI OL O=F YOd 


B - 27 


*“SATIOLUT SUloOosq Sey UOTAINAU]L BoUO :mMYY IO :NOO eq usedo 
O2 3duis73e 4OU DTNoYs ATsnofTaqo uoTWeoTTdde eyL -sesseoord ueysAS-eTTJ 


ou3 se Aem ours ayq ATAOeXe UT poyojed oq ySnu ssaD01d JaTpury ay 7 
‘:ygs se yons ‘aoTaep zayjo Aue asn 03 SquemM UOTIeOT[dde BYR JT 2eYR BION 


‘uOT3INQUI Hutuedo worj sodebtuy doq4s 03 aTqrssod 
qou St 31t ‘BuTqQtim sty} Jo se ey} 33ON ‘“peYOAUT Useq JaAoU ‘asmNOD 
Jo ‘sey youaqyiom ‘“UOTZINQUI SSOTO MOU UD WerboOld UOTZeOTTdde SUL 


‘qTuN YSTp YyoOea IO} pozesdaz 

aq plnoys STYUL ‘“S}OTS OM} aSaeYyy Yo }ed UaYyW pue ySe} UWeySAS-oeTTJ 

yors 10jJ aseq ySe} sy} puTJ Ue NOA Y10d abessew oy} WoIg ~‘jueseid 

Jou ST a@OTAap ayQ 3eYUR SezeOTPUT AOATs uy °dze ‘Tad ‘Odd butssed 
‘()oorgeotaed but{TTeo Aq yse} wezsks-saTTJ yora 1oj 10d ebessoul ay} puta 


*“MOT9q uMOUS se suOp ATTSee ST STYL ‘“ySe} Tesn 3yy 

IOJ auop sem se Aem aures ay} UT pepTaoid aq ysnu AeTpuey der azeatad 

e pue [— 03 aS aq YSnu syse} WeySAS-eTTJ YQ JO SPTeTJ Te Tpuepderzl 07 

pue 13qMOputM ad ay} ‘styy doys Oo, ‘uoTydnz105 Arousul 02 onp 

saysero yse} wexsks-eTTJ eyW JT IO AOIIa YSTp e Jo AUaAe 9YyW UT /Ieysenber 
e 10j yse Aeul saessaooid ueyShS-oTTJ ey 2eY? WeTqoid ayy TIT3S ST areyL 


‘A[QOOITp WET ooxa TTPO TTT Sodebtuy aeseo YyoTYyM UT ‘puNoJ are suetqoid 
uotzdniioo Arowseul sno~zes Ou peptaoid ‘ysez Aesn ayy worJ uoTzFINWQUI 

Jo sosn [Te doIs [TT STYL ‘aUTINOI peptTaoid-—rzasn e Aq pooetdar 

eq plnoys sty3 /iorze ue Jazjye Jaysenber e AeTdstp TTT 3ey} epoo o7 
qutod 03 yse} Jasn ayy JO platy AeTpueyderzL, sy peztTeTzTuT aaey OsTe TTT 
sodebtuy ‘¢ Jexdeyo ‘/TenueW souerTazyey TeoTUYOSL SOdebTuy ey ut STYA UO 
S[TeISp ASyZANJ are areyL_L “SsOTIS [Te eTpuey ysnwi uoTzeoTTdde ayW QeYyW 
a10N ‘ATQAeETNb srorJe Yoder pTNoys SOT Sy 3FeUR Sa zeoTpUT YOTYM ‘T- 03 
PIeTs aMOputM Jd ayR 4eS PTNOM ssa00id sTyL *(sasseo0id weyshks-sTTJ ay 
uqts HuotTe) Hutuunz ssacoid mau ayz ATuo HutaesetT ‘umop butyzArene sasoto 
yotym ‘/TTOpue useyz Sf pueuMlod ITD 3xXeU aYL ‘“Ssed0Id Mou e JJo sumeds 

4T 3eUR UT YOusqyI0M eYTT eaeyeq OF Sepeul oq ued weshoid uot ZeoTTdde uy 


“ITO TeFITUT ayy UO TToOpus 
ue Aq pemMoTToy /(youaeqyzom peotT) qmupeotT e ATuoumIoD ST STYUL ‘“pueUMIOd ITD 
4SATJ SY UNI OF SQdulHRQe PUL UOTRINIUI STA MOPUTA ITD TeTITUT |Yyy Suedo 

uou I 4“ UOTRINAUI OF STUW Sessed pue (SaDUeTajerIg Aq pozesIO) STTJ 
uoTIeINHbTjuoo ayQ uaedo 03 syduwiezje usyy FI = ‘“UOTRINJUT Susdo pue jJTeszT 
SozTTeTazTuT sodebyuy ‘“uoTQZINQUI pue sodebyuy Qnoqe sTTejep sy} ere o1eH 


*‘asooyo OS NnOoA JT Sueoul ozeUTERTe STUy 

HuUTMOTTe ‘SeoTAad pue SeTAePAqIT <:[enueW soUeTEeyoy TeUuTey WOU ebTuy 3syy 
ut HutzzeuroJ Yorz3 Sy pue YOOTA 3Ood YySTp syy ynode STTejJep putz TIT 
nox ‘uMo ANOKA UO e3Iep pUe |apod ANCA 300q 0} ZoOTASp’ YySTpyoer, syW asn 
pue ‘/zeyjeboqrte weqshs but{t}3 sodebtwy ay} ezoubT 03 ST sUTYORU oY TaAO 
HuTyey TOJ saTzeuEeATe TayROuW ‘1eysenber e dn 3nd 03 Sod esneo ATTeuLIOU 
PTINOmM 3eUy SiOITIa sTpuey 03 skem ajeutezTe SepTaocad ysnui werbord umo aNO0A 
‘KT Teotseq ‘MOTeaq umoys se sod butAjtpow Aq usearos eyy YFTM but OeI94UT 
@STMIOYIO Io siaqysenbex weysks dn 3nd 07 HbutAr3 wory sodebtuwy quessid 

ues nok ‘/zeuueul suOS UT SUTYORU SYR AaAO ayey NOA ‘/QuTOd WeYW Jaze ‘JI 
‘soaebtuw Aq pozreys pue popeotT useeq sey weiboid amoA Jeqje ‘JTasmok sjusasa 
qndut eTpuey Aqazey3 pue (uoty@dtzosep soTaeq yndul ayy UT ‘SsedTAeqd pue 
SoTIeAqI]T <:[Tenuey souerayoy [TeuTey WOU ebyuy ayy UT pezerysuUOUp ST se) 
wear3s yndut ay} UTYIIM JeTpuey yndut uMo s,auUo [T[eISUT 03 BTqISsod ST 3I 
“SOTASP’ ynduT vyQ AO UOTZENAUT UMOP aSOTO ATTN} 0} BTqrtssod jou ST 3t 
‘BUTITIM STU JO SY “*TayIO YoORa YIM YOeTEzUT UOTAZINAUT pue SoTebTuN Moy 
qnoqe uoTzeuUOjuT suos SiedoTaaap eaTb 03 peptaocad sft UOT }eULOJUT STYL 


uOT3z TNzUI/YyousqyIOmM WoyuzTM SoTebruy butsn 


B - 28 


*(GQ6T ‘uoTIe20dL10D xO.) AdTtos.wwqQUI 02 UOTIONpO.QUI 


“(BEET ‘“UOTIZe10d.10 xo.2wX) sQueUMoOGg 
eTqexatpA yO ebueyosequy ey} 103 piepuejs e 103 Tesodoig y :3d,410g18qUI 


"UOFAeANd10D PSTITY JO Hjteuspe.y 
exe (y) COTIOATSH pue seuyy, ‘our ‘sweqyshs eqopy jo j1e8uS per & ST 
[unladtsosgaseg ° (pest ’°our sweqshg eqopy) TenueW ebenbue] 3dT410S9S0d 


“(PRET “°OUT “BTO10QOH)) 
Tenuey eouezojey s, seumre1H0.1g JOSSOOOIGOIOTA ATA-ZE/9T 000S9N 


*QeuLI03 eHeult wz8eqQSe1 @ 410J JUCUMOOP 
quemstddns gal °S3ty ofuo1ceTg Wor ‘deunTg peaee[seqU] gal wNOTIy 


‘Our ’4seqndmOD 

eddy 03 pesuscTT »ewepe.q e st [un] ysoqupoeEN ‘our ‘xzeqndu0D 
eddy jo yrewepe.g e st (y)oTddy ‘Tenuem sousrszeu s, soumresHoid 
@ ST STUL °(SO6T “OUI ‘seqndmOD eTddy) YsoqUTOEN epTsur 


*QEULIOJ 4XOQ S 10; 
queumsop quemetddns gar ‘sqty ofUONCeTY Wory ‘Qxe] peqjeuiog Jal ,IXLA, 


*squy OTUC.Q0eT_ JO yreweperg e st [uy] sqay OfU0.QCeTA 


*Oury ‘sqiy SIeAQJOS jo WASUBpey e& ST (un) ara *our ‘sly 
exzenqjos Aq pedotesep ebueqo1equy ejep Jeoyspeeids 10J eULIOJ STR 
st [unjala (Te6T ’*OUL ‘Sty ereNQZOS) UOTIEOTZTOedS TeOTUIPe]L AI 


‘HBuTstzed QUeDSEP GATSANSEA UO UOFIEULIOJUF A0Z 
seo.mos Auew zo euo st x00q STUL *(9L6T ‘beTsze,-sebutids) TexoTd “© 
pue soneg °7 ‘ga Aq peqtTpe ‘eso peoueapy uy ‘uoTQONAQSUOD JeTTdIOD 


“SOE ‘CIN ‘SJJTIO poomerbuq ‘TTeH-SoTQUeAg ‘seTsojes10gGeT 
UsQZtBL ‘ur STSeAS °YJ Ang pue uosTqieH °d Toeraes ‘Tenuey SOusIBjoY W ‘9 


“oul ‘ehTuy-etopoumoD jo yremepe.q e st [un] eStuy 


°2°6709 Prepueys SIG/OSI pue 7Zz0z pepuejs 
OSI OSTY G05 °3OS seQOeIeYO ATq-g Ue 40J GLET-F9'E PrepueIS ISNW 
"TIOSW WATM SSN A0J SOPOD TOQUOD TeEUCTITPPY PAepueIS [TEUCTIEN UeoTSUY 


Mi AeuUSperzl, pue seoucs9jey 


‘sures6oid eTqTzeEdMOS-gJaT ESN pue e7T1K 07 Asee QF erxfeUl OF STIeTTeAe 
ere sueshoid AQTTT|N pue seHerxjoed euTQnoiqns uTewop OFTQnd “SeoToyo 
UTERICO JOJ pepn[OUT exe suoTIeOTZTASsNf pue SeATIeUIez[Y “JeULIoT STTA 
ehueyorequl AOJ pepueys gal ,Sqty OTuCAQCeTY «=6:Huyszejzjo ano s}T ous 


*Ss1eEUIOISNO Mo pue sn jo TTe 
Joy 20930q CU} ‘prepue;s © Qdope QeqR SuedoTeAep ecu EY], ‘Ss }ONpod 
pue ST00q QuouxloTesep Bucur ehueyosequy ejep 40J UOT {eZ Tpsepuezs 


ems peeu eH Og =, “SqeuLioy pozyTefoeds ATuSTy A0J SOTIFITIN 
UOTSABAUIOD YFOTTGXS WKN UeqQ -te79eq AejJ ST SOTTZ SQTAA pus peor 
sueiHoid USUM UOTSIBAUOSD SeUusoS-8q-puTyeqd STAT Wy :Aqdosottud Jal Cay 


‘suresboid quezeszTp Aq seui0z A1cwsul 

QUBJOJJTP OUT pees Eq TTTA IEP Petts cues eyL ‘uesHoad seTnoT zed 

@ JO suoT_e[ndtuew eq ezfuyT do oF 41079eT eqR ‘Aqyasbuol A103 peubdtTsep 
eq PInoys seuLi0j eyy, ‘uCTIeQUeSe1de1 ALcWSU-UT Ue 4O1ITU Ajez1e1 p[noys 


° 
JeTNOFAted euo 4103 eep Hufubyseq ‘TepouTAoAd 003 ee eu 3eu3 
st ‘sdump A.1cusu AT TeoTdAQ ‘syeuli0j SLT queTpedxe UTA wetqoid eu, 


‘uoTQeMlTUe pue ‘“SUOCTIAdTtOSEep 

QUCUM.IQSUT TeoTSMM ‘S}50JJO punos ‘OTsnM ‘sj UOJ ‘sotudes6 pein on.14s pue 
JOSe1 ‘4xXS} peRZeULIoy pue uTeTd epntouyT pue pepue-uedo ere ebueyoxe 03 
s,00fqo ejep jo sedk3 eur ‘s}onpoad yons Auew ssosoe STqesn SeTAeAqyTT 
eqep Anq 03 eTqe eq osTe prnoys Asq, ‘szonpo.id e.1emjjos pedotesep 
XATQuepuedepuy ueesjeq eVep UMNO JTeEUR SACU OF ETIe Sq PTNoYs SsulOjSND 


BIOS STENIJOG 10J Pood euy spisepue7s 


‘STOO 
qdj10s pue ‘uofjeuyue ‘300339 pumos ‘oTsTm ‘oryudesb worjy stejsues3 


wei6o1d jufed e 03 weu3 Guyacu ‘sedeys ,szekeTd, Jo sefeuy ut Sufuuecs 
euybewy ‘szew103 e[Ty ebueyoszeqUy piepueys peeu S100} JueudoTeNeg 


yeep uoum0s Jo se7Aq W00S 

UTM WOU-G) euo uo AOnpoid we Jo squod TeszeASes Qnoqe xUTUL *sQ00f oud 
Ssoioe pezeys eq 03 sey pue ’ST0o} 16930q pue estz1edxe e10u seztnbe1 
‘@EATSUECXe S.10N1 SeuIoDeq jUeUKoOTEASpP ejeG “eVep peTTe ,ep e.i0u ‘Aqttrenb 
-1euHTY JOJ seseeioUT puewep eu ‘SeACIdIT ereMpsey JeqndnoS euoy sy 


esn uT pue peseeTSy 
Silly OTUCAQCeTY, ‘uosTsu0y Aver sWOAZ 
Se6T ‘tT Axenuer 


SOTA yeui0g eHueyosequy 403 pazepuezs ,Se JIaI Way 


29 


*(UOTSABAUOD) UOTANTOASA TeuoFSsedoo pue 

UOTANTOAS PEATUTT 40J suCTIZeQUeSede1 QOe.QSGe JNO UbTSep OF eAeYy 
TT,@4 OS ‘seinpesoid sseooe eyR JO SeTdoo [Te eqepdn 3,uUe> ea SOUTS 
Ajeesz EATOAS 3,,UeS GOLZ1OQUT OT “TITAS UeEAT “AdT40S3Ssog eT eabenbuejl 
Suyumes6oid uepuedepuT-suTyoeul psepueys e UT se.mpeoo.id ing eu 


jeHueqosequT 403 Qves6 

$21 °eVeTosqo eQep Huyystxe Hupyeu Qnoy7zTA SseTTeO pue SoezsEQUT Od? 
@.m}ON.1Qse1 pue pus_xXe ued em ‘ATOSUBAUOD “SASTTEO SF AO GOeJIOAUT ER 
Suyjoeduyt QnouRTA eep EGY ©.NQON1QSe1 pus pueqzxXe Ue eA Senpedoid 
gseoce eu Gurasn{pe Ag -Aqtsetnpou st qoeoudde syq} Jo tenod eqL 


*3T Supqetndyued 
JOJ SUGATIOHTe pue uoT_eQueseider eHe.1038 peqoeTes eq AToueu 


co) 
uo OeAASGe eIEp Y ,,"Sed/q eyep JoeNSGe, pue ,,’S10708,, ,,°SI00f- GO, 
Se UMOW] OST , ‘UCTOe.QSqe eIep, ST WoRoidde eousTos JEQndoS SUL 


* quapusdepurt -SoTASp 
pue ‘quepusedeput-euTqoeur ‘uepuedepuy-1eT Tao ‘Quepuedepurt -ure.260id 
$,3eq3 Aen @ UT uct EULIOJUT QUeSeideit 02 MOT ST we[Tqoid oTseq SUL 


“Arousal Tenziya, uy eyzep euy eHeueu 07 pue ‘sejepdn 

30839p ued surex60.1d OS ,JeqIMU UOCTSASA SqUE QUOD, e UTeQUTeUl OR ‘SSeooe 
XETpeu 02 eE.reMQjos speou precqdTTo yw ‘suresHoid usenqeq eqep Hur sed pue 
Huyzyqno 403 peoqdy; {Oo ew quewerdur zTesy7 Aq ou seop puepuels STU] 


*gumoo e7hq & sey QF 2eq}eUM pue STTZ © Pus OF MOY 


uoTssTusue.Q pue e6e10938 eqep jo ,szeXeT TeoTsAqd, e seumsse 3] °seqAq 


‘PI40M PTO egy wor deb 

eu} eSptiq 03 sureshoid uOTS.eAUOS peeu TITA OM ‘ezenqzos But sTxXe GITA 
AQTLTaTIedM0D yoe1Tp Joedxe Aou op ynq ‘piepueIs sTyR 03 HuTp.ccce 
surei6Boid BuTatia Aq Teep qee.6 w ySTTduoooe ueS ey ‘SOTTJ eSeuqR HuTsseooe 
4oj se—ni pue ‘sodA, seu eutjep 09 shen ‘sedAQ Qo0efqo ejep TeTITUT 

ews ’e.1nQ0Nn.4Qs S[Tj pxrepueys e Gututjep Aq specu eseqQ sesseippe Jil 


*pepecu se ejep eq 

wLioysue.1q dreq 03 3xeQU0D pe.107S eq} esn pue ‘eVep HbuyssTu y[Nejop 
‘JynqAs peztubooe.un drys ‘sq1ed pepeeu eyy peer ued suretHoid Quetdrooy 
‘S[TeJEp TeNAXe_UOD PexTJZ EpNToOUT 02 pebe.moouse st pue ejep SeTqeTTeAae 
eu 6109S ued scumrerboid e ueYuy *e_ep WoRSNS UT ezeenbs ues ‘peou 
Kew uoyAeuLlojyuT EY TTe »xoeq peer pue e10js oj suesHoud Aueu AoTTe 
pue sesodind Aueul esses prnoys sq00efqo °30efqo ue BuyubTsep ueqa peeye 
YUTUL “STQy;Sueqxe pue Teszeueb eq [Te Ysmm szeuL10z Yoofqo oTJToeds 

eq} pue EMION-YS ETTJ Prepuers eqQ ‘ARTATIOCUUOOASQUT SZTUTXeU OL 


‘eqep pue 

suei6oid s,Aepoz Jo EJTI pue SseuTNjesn ey} spuseqxe sTYL “eTqeydeooe 
ST peeyszeao egy se Huol os ‘szeyndMoo eM|{nzJ 10J ASeT OF SEMI; 
eAep PITnq s,3e7 ‘poubTsep eq oj AeXk suem0 esoy} Huypnpouy ‘suresHo.id 
40} SOLTJ SIAM pue peer QeqQ sureshHoid prtnq pue peeye FUTUR 8,307 


‘Aey uety ,‘eTqpssod eq 

PrInoys sHuty xeTduos pue erduts eq prnoys shuyy; eTduys, ‘ATTeuTs puy 
*SOT10QO0ATP SB ONS UcCTAeMLIOJUT TemzonN44s YITM SQOefqo eAeEp WYO 
Buyupequco s200efqo eyysodmoS YonAsUO0S 03 AQTTTGe SY pue soefqGo jo 
QSTI © J@AO SQUeUTS UCUMIDD ereYys 02 AIT ITQe eu EepnToUT sTecK 4z6TAO 


‘suretHoid gg0g 02 YSOO QueoTJTUbTSUT Qe sseocR 00089 
sdjeq ATyzee26 quewu6TTe-piom ‘eTdurexe 10g ‘sjUemMUCITAUe pue Sicsseooid 


SNoTteA JO SUOTIOTAASE1 EY pest P[Noys SzeULioy eZEp ‘SoUSTUBAUCD 4OZ 


*paepueqs eq jo ebequeape TInjJ 

exje2 Sn dreq ues suesfoid eTdirexe pue uofjewiojzuT ub;sep 4103 A10jTSode1 

Teueo y ‘Aen erqrzeduoo-psempoeq pue -premios @ UT SyeULIoZ Hut sTxe 
° 


Aue smortte 3eq3 AITITqTsuse_xXe pezy[esQUEeSep Jo pup & peou OSTe GM OS 
‘seTnpeqos jonpoad dn ploy jouued AsyQ ‘spxzepuejs peeu eM Se YOM sy 


*-AqueToTjyye pue AqtTrTeszeueb ueemj{0eq 

SeSTuIiduoS pooh peou eM OS ‘SUT Tee1 UT eIep sTeqR yno AeTd pue pear 03 
peeu sureshoid euos -eqep Buppeceid eq3 Tre Huyuuecs Qnoy{yA ETT; © UT 
s,00efqo Aueu Jo euo pees 03 eTqyssod eq 03 3UHno AT (‘SeTTZ 9zT4M 03 
JOTSee AT serxem sseooe wopue. yOnou;tTe ‘eqenbepe sft O/] wee.zs emd 


‘eofqoeid uy) ‘pu uy eTAQs uot ZeQUewWSETdNT SUC UeYR ecu! YATA peubtsep eq 


PInoys sqeui0oy ‘AoueToTzze pue ‘AQToTTduTs ‘AQT TTqequod wesHoid 4109 


*sxstp Addotz uo 

TT@M 40M Asm pszepueqs eq} ‘butp.1s0ce1 seTnoTpuedied pue sWOY-d) WTA 
@mAnj e 02 Huypj0coT ee ex QhnomtTy ‘AQoT1eA QueTpedxe eq ue e10H 
Ona COR YSOO plTNoys sSeTTzZ eyQ sou suesHoid eqy seyATeu yng *Ab.10uAs 
A0J SCTTJ e Rep pue surerzHoid Huyubtsep 103 sern1 Jo so, eatTH prnoys 
QI “peeyszero uo V10Ys pue UuoT{AdT4Oseid uo Huot eq pTnoys piepuejs Vy 


esocd.md-TeseueS ePpeqy OF EAeT 3OU Op GM ’OSIOM JO 10990q 

JOJ puy ‘pueysxepun qou op Aeyqy 3eqR UCT ReULIOJUT eareseid sures601d 
@yeul 03 peou jou op em ‘ATeQeEUNQU0g “TTe WeyQ euTjep ATTe1{UeS OF 
q0edxe 3ouues pue sedéq eqep jo esueatun sebseT & ueds 073 poou eM 
ang ‘sures6Ho1d useenjeq 37 HufAow eTTGA TeOTQOeid se QuUeQUCO TON se 
eateseid pue uoTIeULIOJUT TEAST QHTY 1098 07 AlsAel UTS SF HSe aNO 


‘guequmu uot enbe eq HuTAdnistp 10 suofqenbe eq} HuTpreosTp ANouATA 
queumoop Aouey @ jo 3x03 eq} 3Fpe NOA ET PTNOA Josseooid piom eTdTs e 


‘urerHo1id J872JGAU0S & RTA UoTIeQUSSeIdel SeEUISERTeS 


*sesn qons 4103 pesee6 jou ysnf st 34dt10S3S0qg 
‘eTaIexe GUO ST UCTIGT10Sep QUSUMAQSUT TeOTSTM y *-szeded uo sojreul 
02 QUNCcUe SQeEp JO SPUuyy ITS ION :UOTASQTUTT soqjoue sey qdy49g3sog 


“sprepue_s soTude.6 peungqon.4s 103 seqeprpued exe AdTtosjsod Jo Jesqns 
e pue Iola ‘ebenduet uoT{Tuyzep eHewy (Queteatnbe Suymy) Tnzzenod e 
Ajxeeto st al ‘sebewy oTqdes6 Huyszepuet 10J 10721000 pue sreTsTIUSPT 


JeTpuey 2UsUMIDD, woysNS TeuoTydo -moA 03 wey sessed qf ‘ArtTenjqoyv 
“O10UDT TTTA MAeACPPTNS AWeuy LOId & UT ,SWUSUM0S,, 1073S O02 AAT tae 
eu ST o-myees QUeQUOdNT uy *1OSSBOO1d PAOM SB OQ AOFAQSN{[[F US wos 
kes ‘suresboid usexjeq weq} ssed 03 eat 0ezzo ANBA-ST 37 ‘JBAUTAd e 410 


"euqOS STU 

S5utydope Aq s1eubtsep s,eTddy s0u0g IT,SM ‘'e2ZTs eoeds eureu pue ‘out 
@.103S/eredu0o/qo3e5 ‘eoeds e6e1038 ueenqeq jycepe.tq poo e& st s.1eQoe1eYO 
MMNOJ JO ecToIp eu ‘suesHoid pue seTTJ eIep UT sqsodubts elqepre.sz 

se eTqnop sueTjyTjuepT Guys s970e71ey) ‘s6Hhutqs qqbuelT eTqetsea pue 
‘shuT 24S seOeTeEyO TQbueT pexts szeqjo ‘umQT40bte Aq pezeseueb suequmu CI 
enbtun ‘seTyTsoyqne TeoTqoseseyty Aq so Aqysoyqne TesqQueo e Aq poubhtsse 


ssequmu qI enbyun exe SOATIeUISITY ‘suresboid 10978019 E[TJ pue ‘sedAQ ; 


SITs ‘sedky yeut0z przeogdtTo ‘sedAj eo.moses AZTAUCEPT OF ,4SASTITIUVEPT, 
JO}OeTeYO-N0J JO ewes QuefheTS pue STGITS B sesn YysoqUToOEY 


‘IBACW EONOSeY pue AUTeReW SxTT suresHoid yITA 


eSueyo.1equt Aseo pue oTnb 4103 pxeoqdyTo YsoquTPoOeW SqZ Worz PUe OF SOTTJ 
AaI squeauco yeqQ Asosseooe ASep YSoRUTOeW © OFT4M Atqeqoid [[7a eM 


“STTeJEP 468NRO KOZ B ‘OS.NOD JO ‘ere SLOUL “JAI JO Copy UTeU CUR 8, ICUL 


-dropeq 10 peeyexoo, ou 4nq 

‘uoTsmoe. serfnbet STUMYO 1eqRO SPTSUT peAseu somo B5uTpeey -e.mpeco.id 
uoTszeau0o/sseooe sedoid eq} 02 yo edsTp pue xUNGS Jore ueoS 0} s4esied 
TeTAT23 8 sexpnbes Sutpees yung) “pszeni0s{uSye.qs St Huy{T4a yun 


-edk3 qoefqo jo Quepuedepuy , xeu 03 dys, pue yAdoo, SITT suotzeszedo 


Characters 


the CPU are specified in one format for all 
/32-Bit Microprocessor Programmer's Reference 


We chose a format that's most convenient for the Motorola 


MC68000 processor [M68000 16 


ly by 


Atomic components, such as integers and characters, that are 
le direct 


in 


PRIMITIVE DATA TYPES 


processors. 


Manual]. 


IFF uses the graphic group RJS (SP, hex 20) through R“S (hex 7E). 
Most of the control character gro 
con 
den 
ine terminat. 
str 
) 
der 


(hex 0) through DEL (hex 7F) are well defined by the 7-bit 
standard meaning in IFF. 


as a "newline" character. 


is, a paragraph or 1 
automatic line break. 


red 
a i 
phd 
hy Bit 
aeaehegeo: 
Ses eth he 
ee 
eta 
Parsapeas 
: =~ we ge 
eae 
soa bE a 
ESTEE 
Bi sgiSsig: 
goo gees y 
bigtales 
Hele 
agasagezee 


Investigate 


Issue: 
(hex 20) should 


° 
(probably a 32-bit 


unsigned number of seconds since a reference point) . 


these three date formats. 
Type IDs 


[See the "FIXT" IFF Formatted Text 
time a stream of data 
"last modified date.") 


the concatenation of four ASCII characters in the 
ting characters; trailing spaces are permitted. Control 


not precede prin 


, and ISO/DIS standard 6429.2. 
hex 20) through R“S (hex 7E). Spaces 


aced. 
a un 
Standard Additional Control 


rbidden. 


"property name," "FORM type," or any other IFF identifier 
characters are fo 


environment the 
a reserved escape 
American Natio 
ISO standard 20 
ANSI standards cited above. 
document in this appendix.] 
Dates 
A "creation date" is defined as the date and 
° or ; 
of those used in MS-DOS, Macintosh, or Amiga DOS 
A “type ID," 
is a 32-bit value: 
range R S (SP, 
typedef CHAR ID[4]; 
IDs are compared using a simple 32-bit case-dependent equality test. 
Data section type IDs (aka FORM types) are restricted IDs (see "Data 
Sections."). Because they may be stored in filename extensions (see 


-high byte first, high word first 
types could potentially 


These 


express data type definitions in the C programing 


16 bits signed 
16 bits unsigned 
32 bits signed 


The actual type definitions depend on the CPU and the compiler. In 


UBYTE 8 bits unsigned 
WORD 
UWORD 
LONG 
this document, we'll 


relative to the start of the file. This may require padding. Pad bytes 
are to be written as zeros, but do not count on that when reading. This 


Numeric types supported are two's-complement binary integers in the 


format used by the MC68000 processor- 
include signed and unsigned 8, 16, and 32 bit integers, but the standard 


only uses the following: 


a ce) . ° 
of structures to be stored in chunks should include pad fields where 
: needed to align every field larger than a byte. Zeros should be stored 


oo 
no 


All data objects larger than a byte are aligned on even byte addresses 


language. [See C, A Reference Manual.] In 68000 Lattice C: 


--the reverse of 8088 and 6502 format. 


Alignment 
in all the pad bytes. 
° S 
add an occasional pa 
or s 
r 
Numbers 


long- 


wMNYD =: Aq .10d01g 


:ATTeopqoequtg (*punoq seddn erqeuosee.: e st seqhq 967) ‘eTTZ © Sutpees 
UUM WVU UT peqeTmumMooe eq 02 pepusquyT ere seTziedoid ejep esneseq 
‘TTeus Eq P[NoYS ezTSo euy ‘edAq Az1edoid © se TTea se eueu Aj s;edoid e 
ST GPP SUL “xWMYD Jo eseo TeTOeds e st AQtedoid ejep e Jo WioJ SUL 


* (,dOYd dnor2p,, ees--soMYS ,d0d,) suofyoes Aqzedo1d pue 

(,,su0TQ0eg wIeG,, E8S--SHMUD ,,WIOI,) SUOTIO0S ejeP ePTsUT ATUO o seedde Acu 
SOT Edo1g ae HuyAMoTToy ynoqe Hutyjewos Hut TT982 ,,°(00Z ‘OT) = AXu 
eTdiexe 4 ‘ONTCA = JoTzTQuept, sAes AT Te eTqUesse Aquedoid ejep vw 

* soqumIZO (Aq 20do.1d uou) HuTMoT {os 103 seqnqysqqe Azyoeds seyjzs]edoid e eG 


"(9 entea rr9Sv) 93Aq ‘INN © 
Aq pesortToy sse,oeszeyo ocz 02 0 sueeu Qeyr ‘pesn ATTeuLIoU ST QeULIOJ 
Guts D pe7oT2q4Sse1 ‘AQzedoid ezep 40 yuNYyD e jo q4ed & se posn USM 


* ,LXAL, 20u ‘eureu Az1edoid eq} 
eq ysna Aj1edoud © Jo GPf> eq ° [sz]ONTEIS Teosed & 10 BuT4s 5 & 
02 pezteauco ATTpee.t ST buy 44s e yong “Huot sze_oereEYyO SGZ 03 0 Sq 
Aew yunyo Sbuyaqs 4x83 & ‘(moteq ees) AQ18doid ejep © Se pesn USUM 


“soqkq T - Tevez 03 dn 

SMOTTE Prepueqs eur, *seqzkq LOLZE UeYA seHucT eq jou ATqeqor 3d prnoys 
Huzaqs 3xeq e ‘szeqQEU TeOTQOeAd e SY ,,IXAL, ST 3xOQ peqqeuiojun 
‘uretd Jo o Gupags © suTeqUCO FETA AUTO w 403 GDP eal (uy *SIOVOLILT), 
eeS) ‘“pesn AOU Gue SuSE_QOBIeYO [O1QUOS 4ETAO * (2ozeuTULIE EUTT 4 40 
ydesHered) xeeiq GUTT peosog e SejOUeP FT ‘3x63 [IDSy JO Huts & Ul 


seTqtedoig Buy.z4g pue ‘semq Suy.qg ‘shut.4¢ 


*@OUO FS TTS NO AT SIT4M UST ‘EZTS Sq} EANdIOD 02 eVep SYR 1GAO 
ssed Axeuyut {oid e exe 02 st onbyuyoe? seyjouy “eZTS EU UT TITS 
o2 aepeer, euQ 02 we Sseooe-uoOpUeL UeETQ ’S{UEIUOS HUNGS et} SQT4A 
weet3s ‘Jepeey xUNYO ¥ SQT4M-Weer{S 02 ST enbyuoe, yndqno xuNyO Sup 


(o] { sanxan }# GI =:: UND 


(-uofqejou jo uoTQeueTdxe ue yQTA HuoTe 

‘IBRLT POROSELTTOO ere QucUMOOP sTyR UT sUOCTSSseidke sertnbe1 Seyz) 
"e7hq ped pepecu-seutjeuos & squeseidet ul0), SAL °seqhq {peoce.1q} 
BHuyMoTTO} euy Jo qybueT ey ‘ST 3eqR ‘eztTgyo eu; SuTjueseidet ,#, 
(ATA UoTsseudxe zeTn6e1 e se ~uNGS e Jo xeqUAS ey eqTJOSep UES OM 


*peRBounN.1Q ee SIUSQUOD peyseU JT ‘eTdexe 10J ‘peuiojTeu 
ST SQep QeuQ JT uUSEAS eRe sy_ HuTpeet 410J S[TJ-JO-pus [eNVITA & 
Se OZTSO s,xunGo Axess Q00edse1 Asrm suesHoid ‘syunyo HufAMoTTOJ JO 


023 8S, a 
TOTUM ‘SMOTTOJ e7Aq ped 9 & ‘Huot sejAq jo sequmu ppo ue ST ejeE@pP JI 
“BQEC—PO UT seqAq wep Jo szSquMU eYR--9ZTS YOTT TeoTHboT & SF SZTSIO SUL 
‘queumoop sty, JO pus egy 3e peprAcid sft sqI peuTzepeid Jo 


ASTI W “SAI NYS EZ SSeMR s0J QUMODOe Asm ereMQzOS ET qTIeEdMOD- Fa 
TTIW ‘“SUOT{VTIBA ,JOqUMU UOTSIBA, GANQNZ AOJ peAseSet GAS ,6IWOw 


ubnorm ,TIWD, pue ‘640d, Wnowzq, ,THOd, ‘“u6SIT, Wnowy ,TSII, Sai 
eu], *S}ZUeQUOS TN nzbuyuesu ou exey ynq eoeds TITS WU sHOMMYD ‘sy AeUy 
aia anti? 403 app © st (seoeds y) w GI TeToeds euy 

a uW8Ody ‘uLSI'Iy : sSuTUeeU gaI szeTnoyzs4ed 

TTA eure ASraueet 03 peaseseit ATTESAOATUN exe SQI4O BUTAOCTIOZ SUL, 


* (eaoge ses) 

eReE—MO JO syeui0oj mou AjTQUSpT 03 Sq] seu xOTd em se Huo, se szequmu 
UOTSIOA YEULIOJ © SB SOAIOS OSTe GPO SuL ‘sxuMYyoO pezjzubocoe.zun [Te AeAO 
GyyAS prnoys AI “eAe@MpO yeaduequy 03 GP ezpubooe. ys wesboid e 
‘e[ni e sy ‘xUNYo eYyQ Jo esodimd pue QeuLioj eA SETJTIUSPT GIAO SUL 


weep Jo seziq 
SZTSO UTA xuUNGS qPfo edAR e& ST S10, sueou qed sepeoy pexTs SUL 


o-------- | o ‘39 ‘0 ’o | 
sez{q 2T | o ‘39 ‘oO ’o | 
o------- | ze ’o ’o ’o | :e2e@IO 
| tT | :@zTg0 
| sw, | %*qIx0 
STH OMT soziq 
Se 


“4 “ ° 
uw’ 2AXu nage uTXXy ©@ Prnos uXn aq eu} 30 eee aap pue 4s1TZ 
‘ordurexe -A75Tp & 02 JEQOETeYDO YseT eNQ ebueyO 
zt seq D8-AETD ASeT Sy QUeweIOUT 03 ST CI ,uU oTSTADL, re esoyo 03 Aen 
TeUCTAUSAUOS eYL ‘eIEp MoU eAO GuTTquN|s wo. sueiHoid plo deey sqI Mou 
* (40 


8 
‘ 
3 
© 
A 
x 


*‘peqqtused ere seoeds Hut[Tesl “ueppTqoz 
O21e HEU uoTZENQOUNd PUB £19Q{OT SSEO-AOAOT ‘(,S°1ta esodimg e6urts,, 


*Qoezze ou seq x = Tdoad BuyjAes eqQ ‘Tdoid jou exe SNdoid eq e.1eqAK 
K=tdoad ,(entea = Ndosd) x = Tdoud 


seouenbes eu UT ‘eTdexe 109 ‘uSeeM {eq UT SxuNGo e yep uo 

Kuo 30e33e sey Aquedoid sures eyQ jo HBuytA es sejeT e Aq peTeoued 
Bur3ajes Aquedoud y °Ano seeTS Jou ST UOTIOUTASTP STU], “UOT EULIOJUT 
TeTQuesse eqQ ATddns somyo szeqjO SYA STTYA QUOZ 4xej se Yons sSTTeAep 
snoTzeA Joy shutaqes eATS sxunyo Ajedoad ‘sxunyo Tesco, euy Suouy 


« PrepueAsuou,, ere JOIST peppe souo 
peztrepoeds pue ,,’prepuejs,, petTeo ere (ed; sty} JO SQUSTTO [Te 02 UMC] 
e10jezeq3 pue) peubtsep st ed WYyOd G4} USYM peUTJep SxUMYO Ted0T 


“ST duhO'WATI Ue JeUqA 

MOU TTTM noX ‘ST WATI WuOa & FeGM Mou nok ZT ‘edoos oTQUeEUES SeUTJEp 
edk3 WuOd THeS ‘ZeNR ueT E10 *,dUNO'WATI,, OF pezeTesun oq Aeu sedAQ 
WIOT JOUQO UT SHUMYO TET ydwwDy ‘SNUL “SCI MYO TedoT 403 eoeds sureu 
Teoot e sft ed, WUOT toe, ‘su sz]eqjO pue seTjZedoid ejep : ,sxuNYoO 
TBOOT, SIF JO pesodilos ST WYO B UT UOTQEMIOJUT OFZ TOedS-edAQ SUL 


(,°S°lta esod.md-epbuqs,, 
pue ,sqrI edky,, ees) *s1eqQoereTyD UoTIENQOUNd 4O S1O}}0ET ESED-JAMOT 
uTequoo jou Aew Ae} GI peqoTqsei e st (sdAQ WuOg 40) edAM0g cuz 


*pe_ecouns ore 

Kom JT were ‘’squequoo sjzqt Hurfpees 40J STTJ-JO-pue TeNIAyTA & Se OZTSIO 
Sit Woedse.1 3snm suesboid ‘2xmyo seyj0 Aue Butpee.s ueya se “WUOT & 
SHuyTpeet ur ‘smyYo peqseu Jo szequmu eUlOS pue QI ue suTeQUOS yuNYO 

OuQ WeNR SCTIGUF AI “UOTIOSS eReEp S SOREOTPUT WHOA, AI AMY ey OS 


* (eareu petztrenb © esn 03) ,dWWO'NETI, ue 

‘,dWWD, AUNT TeoOT e UTeQUOCO QUyHTU ‘seTNoOTQued UT ‘,WaTI WYOd, VW 
(“MoTeq pessnosTp ere SJyD pue SISII) *(SIWD pue ‘SISIT ‘Swaod ‘somo 
Teoot) ,xequks, 10 quewebuessze squeqUCO seTNoTIed e pue (etduexe 
STU} UT ‘WATT, ‘eueu emjons3s eyR) GI edAQ wOd & Aoedke 02 AoW} 
TTT nNoA ,Wog, ees NoA ZI *ydWD, PTOTZ & Hutuye uo ,WATI WONAQS, & 
JO MUTUL °D UT ,9°N13S, SxTT psomAer ofFQOeQUAS © ST ,WHOI, GI SUL 


yung | Aquedo1g =:: 

aI 
{ e(mwo | rsri | waoa | 2xunqDTeD:07) edAmiog H+ ,WuOd, =': 
:quewehuewe sTqQ pue ,WHOd, APO WTA xUNY e ST UOTQOCeS ejep Y 


AUNGDT COT 
edAjuLi07 
Wa0d 


*SUOTAGTIOSeEp QUeUMAQSUT [eOoTsna 
po Seu TATA O100S TeoTsm e se Wons Aoefqo eyTSodu0S e eq PTNOD AI 


JO ,’UOT}OSS SREP, YW *,,UOT_OSS eQep, e Jo uoT OU ey dn shuyaq STUL 
“103 HUTHOOT Ere OM EEP JO PUTA EW SUTEQUCO AT sEyAEYM ‘os JT ‘pue ejep 
gal suyeUOCS AF JENICYA ST SN [TSR ASTM eTTZ e Huyyy 3S4TJ SUL 


; 2OTTzZ 3eb.1eR 
OT} UTUITA , HUTT, @ 03 eousseze e snTd ,jJO1 OTTJ, B Sq STIR PTNM 
gOTTJ seqjoue jo uot 10d e@ eoustejei OF SueeUl © YNode yeYyy -enss] 


2SjO@1 ETT UepuedepuT weqsKs-HuTe1edo sseidxe eM UBD MOH :enss] 


‘003 ‘JOAIOS © GUTEU P[NOD joi ETT SG ‘QUeUTIO.TAUS 

HYAOMASU © UT “GUMTOA peAUNOU SulOS UO SEM STTF SY WeUR Atay prtnoa 
eoue18je1 eYL *s0RzeUTHT10 s,je1 ey se weysks Buyye1]8do 

jo edky ewes eyQ ut ETTZ e pue A10}0e1Fp © GUCU PTNOS ,jO1 OTTZ, W 
‘SO[TJ AeyAO 02 SeoUseIEJEI UOJ WiOJ PAepue_AS e poou Aeu eM :enss[t 


SOQusIOjSY Slt 


‘zequmu xepuT Aq @100S TeOTSna! e UTIATA Wey OF teje1r Asnf ue] pue 
‘squoumaqsut TeoTsna ‘Aes ‘Jo ASTT & pees 02 EOTZzns Ae Ay ‘Mou 4107 


‘WSTUBYOOU AUTT psrepuejys ou sey Se6T AAI WA “HAOM ASYRINJ Speou STU] 
"SWOT JeujO pue eures ey UTUATA Soy OFZ TOedS 03 40 SWYOT 1640 OF 
JOJO FE SWHYOT UTUATA SoyuNYoO , HUTT, SUTJOP TTTA OM sdeyseg *‘suotzeuyue 
03UT spunos pue sebeut HSuTuTquoo se yons sesseooid 10j ST qeiTsep 

KIOA ST ,Seo0UsEJOI SSO1O, AO ,SHUTT, AOJ WSTueTPoU puepueys W <:enss] 


wu’ Prepuejsuou, e71e 167eT poppe souo 

peztiefoeds ,/pzepueqs, perreo ese (SqUeTTO TTe 03 UMOLD{ E10Je109 pue) 
poubtsep st edA, 3oefqo ue uega petytoeds sqr Aquedoig * dvi ‘NATI, 

GI peTztTtenb euj se ,NATI WuOd, © UT Aquedoad dvb, © JO AUTUL 

‘sqrt Aquedoid 103 eoeds eureu Teoot e sf (edAQ Wada) ed AOefqGo org 


(,°seTqwedoig peseys, pue , SIV, « SISIT, 
ees) “som peqoezze euQ epeceud Aeyy se Suot se 1033 eUl WOU Seop 
squeuubtsse jo 1epi10 euL ‘squeuubtsse TeqoTh eptszseso AT Taze10die3 

squcuuhHTsse [TeOOT pue Auepunper ere squcuUbtsse eTdT [NW ‘ebenbuet 
SHuyumesboid © UT SeTqeTzeA 03 squeuubtsse se sHut3 es Aqzedoad jo yuTUL 


“UOTIEULIOJUT STUR peeu [TTA suretHord s6eqjO ‘weshoid «nod 
ut Area jou op AeyQ JT uese ‘ebeuy ue Jo OZTs SA Se Fons ‘uo; EMLIOJUT 
4x@jU0D eqT.0Sep 03 set ztedoid esn ’Q00efqo ejep e HuTubTsep usu 


B - 34 


‘SSSET 10 sojkq 
gsz Aes--juoygs AtqeeGeuew spmyo Aj10edo1d eqQ deey 02 1equeue1 puy 
"(soyaAT se ons) uot ZeEULIOJUT JO SpuTy AeU UT ezeenbs UeD sure1601d 

JeUZO Ze OS UOTsUedxe 40J WOO’ EAE] ‘UT-peer Huymp squed Te.zQUed 
eu 20e19xe UeS sue.Goid seTdmTs QeTQ Os (sureeq ej0Uu se ons) uUoOTIAeUL10JUT 
peztlejoeds e.1cu wow (sejoU TeoTsmM se Yons) eVep TeQUeS STA ejeredes 


-AQTFITGFFEdUoS Si0cul ROT & 

seTqeue sTuy, ‘oe ‘seueTdatq dozp 40 ppe 03 ‘eTHuejoe1 ebeuy oR dt[o 40 
puedde 03 pezesodue ueq} ere suerhoid HuTaTecey ‘seueTdqtq € x sTextd 
00z xX oze sesn skeate wesHoid mod jf uese eztTs ebeuy euy Ajyoods prnoys 
ebeuwy sotydesh seqsei e ‘eTdurexe 10g ‘seTtTy anoA jeudue,UT OF peou TITA 
sue16oid 1030 3eUQ eReP EN TTe e_eTNsdeoue ‘edAQ pod e Sutubysep ul 


‘pezTuyuya eq prTnoys 

suoTzeTsea ‘Aes 03 sseTpeon ‘SedAQ puOg WUSIeJJTP eTA sdeysed ‘eTTZ 

{ee SPTSUT AUeT IEA SYA EReEOTpUT pue UTATAOHTe UOCTSASAUCD EY SUTTINO 
--JOp1O ATq eSieAet UT SueHe_UT JO SuequMU ASEA E10RS 03 ‘eTduUexe 103 
--pepeou ere squetTsea edAQ oTsyoeds-suTyoeu JI “SUOT_eTASp eYyR 3no sTTeds 
uoTReAueuMoO0p unoA JT JTESAIF S-MQoNAAS AUN EGA 4O0J Jou 4nq sxUNYS T[eSOT 
SRT JO SZUS_UOS |YR J0J UEppT.steAo eq Aem (,SedAL eeq EATITUTAd, SS) 
QuewubTTe-pioa pue sedAQ ejep eaTaTuTad 4103 setni ey ‘edA WuOd MoU & UT 


-edk3 pUOT SuTASTxe eq} UTUITA SUCTSTAe1 eTQTIedMOS UATA Aq 366 03 ALQ 
ang °,,THQA, PETTY ©q PINES UOCTIOeS EIeP CAAA, PESTAS1 © ‘oTduExe 
Jog *(,SaI edAl, ees) sequmu ucTS.eA © se eAJeS TTTA GI edAQ WuOd SIT 
‘UOTQO@S Rep eulOS JO UHTSep euA esTAe. 07 Aresseceu seunoed 37 JI 


*QeULIOJ EY OF SUOCTSUERXe HuTIeEUTP.1000 pue 

suoTasenb Butzeasue jo ebsrey ut uTewet pTNoys uct IeZTueb410 eUlOg *Epod 
S[duexS UYTA AeULIOJ EMA USTTGNd use pue ‘FeULIoJ ey eUuNQ sdeyted 

‘QT EAT4M pue peer 03 WesHoid e QueueTduT ‘eo qQTuMCSD Aq snsuesuoo upTsep 
905 03 sT eoucsejyeid smo ‘gaaI UT ETQTSsod ere SUOTSUe}xXS puUe SUCTITUTJOp 
QeULIOJ pezTTesqUecep UnoIATY ‘“eOUSTUBAUOS ASeT[Aee ATeYy, We SV 
OTUCI{OETY WTA TF SALSSeA prnoys 3nq qI edAQ Wud Aeu e xoOTd ues eucKuy 


‘eTdurexe poo e 103 deuntg peAeeTteqUl 

dar WTI, SS ‘3 00efqo meu eq] sesseooe 7eI; wes6Hoid GO1NOS eTdUIeXSe 

ue pue syopedA; Atddns 03 eept pooh e sft 3I “eQep eqy but eiduequtT 

pue SuTjes8eueH 103 sSeTNa pue “SoxuMYyo [eOOT pAepueqjs Jo SzeULIOJ 

pue sqr em ‘qr edA3 wuod sat ‘esodmd s,30efqo ey Aztoeds 02 speeu 
quewetddns y ‘sedk3 oefqo TeUCTITPpe SUTJEpP TITA squeumdop Te QuUeweTddns 


SUOTIOeS eQeq AeN BSbuTUbTseq 
“SQI G10U SUIOS EAIOSOI pue SEVEpTpueoS EIQ JepTsucD :enss] 


“#HLS pue ‘HNOI ‘NOI ‘IUMN Sdequed ‘setts dal 
UTUQTA ESN 103 peqdope eq prnos sedAQ eo.mosei YSOQUTOEW 4ey}0 SUlOS 


SedAL Somosey YSoQUToOeR 1eUqI7O 


*sQUeUIOJTAUS 2euj0 UT sOoTUdes6 pe.mjonijs 403 pesn eq [ITA JeULIOJ 
JeqQoue GSB TOTYA UT ‘esn YsoqUTOeEW OF peqTUTT eq Aeu IOId :S30N 


"QUTOg ABAPPTNG & SF AK Ue JO SUSE {UCD SUL 
4Sanqotd Hrq eqy, 02 GATZSTOA IOId Eyy JO uoTATsod eyR SezeoTpPUT 3eUF 
Aquedoid peuopado ue ‘xX, ST SOId 203 Aquedoud psepueqs ATuo euy 


*2eEQNdMOD YSOIUTOeEW eq y uo weu AerdsTp pue ejZee10 02 

MOY pue SIDId UO STTeIep 4A0J ,ABACPPTNG, seqdeyo YsSoqUToeEW SpTSUI ses 
éSoId & UF IOId Guo ueyR Sica MOTTE GM prnoYys <:enss] -emjoTd AePPOTNG & 
SprToy pue ,IOId, GI Seq uof_Oes eRep Sold, & SPTSUT AUN ejep eUyL 


Solid 


‘deuntd 

POACSTISQUT FAT ,WATI,, Wucumoop Tejucustddns eyQ seg °00Q ‘SjUSMUCATAUS 
JeujO UT [TNjesn st pue szeqndwoo eHTuy-er0pouMD EGR AOJ YeMIOJ STTJ 
eheuy prepuejs eu ST WHII WuOd ‘Ssobeuy seqse1 103 QeuLioz JuepucdepuT 
-euTgoeu e ‘deul s0poo WAta ebeuy deyatg peAeeysequy ue ST ,WATI, 


Wail 


"QxXel peqqeuLiog Jal ,IXLa, WUeumoop Te uewetddns 

SQ Seg “AUSMUOITAUS UOCTITNQUL Ss, eHTuY UT UCTIeQUeSe1de1 3x8} EG OF 
peqojeul [TOM ST IXLd WaOA “Saepeeq eGed pue sutbsew se ons uoT{eUAOjUyT 
Huyt37euU10j -Queumoop 40 -ydesHered ou sey AI ‘seoey pue SjUoJ se ons 
UoTAeULIOsUT Huy {WeULioj -1tSQOeIeYO YITA 3XSZ SUTEQUOD UOTIOSS wep IXLI Uv 


LXLd 
‘seuo seu HuTuTjep 40z setn1a pue sedAQ wuod SuTAsTxe Teszeses ore e.10 


‘OLITJ @ AO pszeogdt[o e yHnorqQ eQep 

6 SACU! PTNOS z10dxe pue Quodmy “swYuOA pe Aseu euyQ Quodxe pue VioduT 
03 suesn anoX 103 AATTToOeZ e epTAoid oj peqsenbeu AyHuosz3s exe noA 
‘sq0e[qo e77SOduIOD seqeeto QeUyQ wesHoid e SupubTsep uy ‘eu0je.zeul 


‘sWuOa wons AzTpow 410 e7ee19 prnoys edAA WAOT «MOA Jo seTN1 eqy 

pPrloydn 02 ue7QT4A ere QeTQ suesHoid Ajtup ‘squeuoduos eyA jo A10{0e1Tp & 
Jo 3Un0o e BuyuTeqUTeU se tONS ‘WYO, SE ATSoOdMIOo eq 403 sjUCcUBITNbe. 
Aoueystsuoo Azyoeds noX sje, pszepueys ga eq} esneceq st eur *3Oefqo 
e {TsoduoS unoA uTyATA s7oefqo QueUOdM0S ATeYR eceTde1 O02 peMOoTTe jou 
 @se SAOZTPS wWons “WeYyW Op oR YHnous Aouej ere suretH01d 

Mey UbnoUATe ‘QuUeUOCdwOD Jo edAQ sqT yno Adoo 03 joefqo ejTsodm0S 

anoX oquT 4ooT uese Aeul S1z0jtpe Ssoul, “SwYOA YWUeuodMOS EY ATpe pue 
ezeeID WeUQ sueshoid GuyyAstTxe uo eHeserst noA ‘sping eATsodmo0o HuTsp 
“QUNOS eUTeAy pUe EVIL SUEZ SHTT UCTWQeEULIOJUT UATA SyUNYyO TeUuocTITppe 
QIESUT UeS NOX “SWOT 3OeJZe punos pue syYoT eungjotd erqeTTeae wo. 
eouenbes uot jeUTUe SsUe’JTATM e se qons Aoe[{qGo eATsodmo0o & prfnq ued noA 
SUCGU STUL, ‘UCTIOES VjEep pebpe[j-TInj © ST WHOA & SPTSUT UMTS WAI V 


. *‘Buydno.6H eq uo sqUTe.QsSUOD 40 
Suyuecu szeTnNoT zed Aue Hutsodmy QnouAyTA swuod JO younq e dnowH nod ACT 
WOTUM ‘SIWD pue SISIT OUT swuda Surdnosd qnoge syTey UOCT{QOES wHReT VY 


‘sq edAQ 

WNOd ©q ou Aew soueu xunQo TeszeatTun eseuy ’AQTAETO 107 (,,°dOUd anor, 
pue ’,ISIT dno.,, ,’SyUNGD, 88S) *,6IWD, nowy ,TIVD, Pue ‘680d, 
yonosyy Ted, ‘“y6SIT, Wnoswgy wTSIT, ‘wlffCu ‘u TWOu ‘udOUdy ‘uWeOd, 
*.LSIT, :‘Waod Aue epysuy peassei Gre SGI YUNYS TesszeatuN HuTAoTTOs Sul 


*wed} 3SeU Ue] weq}e1 SIYWD eb.s0u ATTee. prnoys sure.Ho1g ‘pe seu 
Ajese1 ete sly ‘sqoefqo Jo uoTjeueQeouCe e& sues ysnf [yD & esneseg 


* (,swaod 


*pezeoun.4 40 peuiojrtew ore Asu JT 
uess sqoefqo peqseu eqy Surppees 103 S[TJ-JO-pue TENZITA B SB OZTSIO SIT 
qoedse1 qsnm suesGoid ‘xunq> seqjo Aue Suppees ut se ‘Jy ¥ Ouypee.s ul 


CI ,edk3 e3ep Qoerqsqe, ue so QUTY Be -- 8 gr =:: edAysquequop 
{ saxo | Isti | waoa) edArsquequoa }# y INDy =! IND 


‘euO AXeU EGR 02 JeQUTOd eATIQeTOA e ATTeTIUESSe ST xUMYO peuTe QUOD 
joes JO EZTSY eUL, “sq0efqo peqseu eqA Aq peMoTIOZ CI ,edAQ squequoo, 
w Buyupequoo ,, TWD, GI AUNyS YATA YUNG & st yD & ‘ATTemjonAS 


*s20efqo weep zo dno.6 pedéqun ue qsnf st Iv VW 


"WaOa 2eqQ JouduequT ATQSe.1100 03 SgOUd perteys sseooid ysrm ISIT 

8 OPTSUT WUOA & speor QeqQ wesHoid Auy ,°dOUd, Pue y’ISITy, w’ IW. 
qhoge souy oste suesfoid gar ,,Suputozuoo-AT Inj, Tlw °SIWD pue SwRiod 
eTpueq qsnf pue seqqe6o3Te saOwd pue sIsIT dps Aew swesfoid seTduts 


*sq00efqo Jo uoTQeueQeoUu0SD 

e Atduys st ‘pueq seqjo ey} UO ,, ‘IW, W “d0ud & Jo edoos eq} euTzep 

62 ST ISI'I @ JO esodind eup ‘sTUR Op O23 ,,dOUd, PETITES suveu e septAocid 
ISII ‘dew 1z0Too suo exeys Aeuw suoct JO ASTI & ‘eTdexe 10g ‘s300fqGo 
JVTTUTS JO STI @ WAC poueys eq 02 peou seuyjewos shut Q3es A71Edo.1g 
sesod.ind sTqj Aoj SUISTUETOSU TESIOATUN-JAI OV ,IWD, PuUe ISI, s300fq0 
eazy, ‘dnosh sse[o Asuqtj & Se pe.mjon14s eq OF peoU [ITA eIep A tez9ueb 
qnq ‘myi0om szeqset 6tq wv oquy sebeuy e[3QFT Suybuesse exTT WT e 
SOUTASUOS “SUCST JO ASTT & SXxTT ey Veo} pedno.6 eq 03 speou usqjO eIeq 


‘TTeIep UT seTNs petrdmy Tre Ayfoeds oj ye64103 Rou op “AT TeuTZ 


*PAeOGGTIO @ AO OTT eQetedes v 

ubno.g3 eep ecu Aeu suot}QOUnZ jiodxe pues jioduT SUL “SWYOT peqseu eqy 
quodxe pue ju0dmT 03 szesn mo 103 AQTTTORS & epTaoid eseetd ’sq0efqo 
@ATsodmoD sejrero QeqR weHoid © eyT4M NoA ZT *squUeU0CdMOS eu3 YTpe pue 


e78e2 Wey suesboid BuTyAsTxe uo eHeszereT nod ‘swYOT SITsodm0S WATM : 


poqesedes ATepTa sjeULi0j YONsS MBJ E PUMOE SESN AMO GOSETEOO 8,307] 
*peqecytTdmos 003 Huz33e6 ynowATA sue.tHoid Aueur JO specu eu sessedooue 
Jey YeULI0z ,CTATA [NaI uCUMIOS ASeOT, Ssodind-[Te1euss ve ubtsep 03 ALL 


°@68.1038 


6 
qufjua ebeuy 2eqse1 © ‘o[durexe 40J--peou seTNoT ed euo 4seeT Ae OF 
STTe,ep EM ATq ‘euo peztTefoeds ATySty © pue Qeui0j Tessucb-szedns & 
usenjeq eSTUCIdu0S pooh ¥ e7T.4s 02 AQ ‘30efqo ejep v Sutubtsep ueqy 


‘sezep uot ees euQ sso1se Adoo 03 pejcedxe eue sedéj 

eUTYOeU USeNQEq SOETTJZ SACU QeYQ suetHO1g ‘weqshS ETTJ [BOOT SYR UF ejEp 
300.1109 eu UTeRUTeEU pPTnoys suresHoid Huy juodsues3 pue ‘HuTaTpe 
*BuT,ee1o E[TZ ynq ‘Aqsz]edoad e UT pes07s eq OSTe PTNodS ejep UOT Weed VY 


‘seTzuedoid eseqy jo Weu10z eq Aztoeds 
:enss~ “sited ure.s601d Bupatece.s/buTAeuThT410 szeTNoT{ued uy shnq punose 
HAOM OF AO QeULIOJ eJep e JO SUCTIETAPA PepuSqUTUN USeM{Eq ystnbuy34stp 


ISIT 403 set zs]doig 


*sqI odA3 Wao ATEN szSeqze AQHT1 SWUOT peyseU SY JO we OUT 
seTqedoid esoua BupAdoo 03 Quereatnbe ATT eoyjueues ore setTjiedoid pezeys 


-Ax0wsul UTeEW UT PToy 03 Wnoue TTeus eq 03 peubtsep ese Acyl 
‘oes e UO SHUT IQeS Ajuedoid deo ‘STTZ aaI ue Huppees ueyA OS “SONTeA 


UMO S,WYOd W ‘dnosb egy UTUATA sWuog 403 ATuo qnq ‘szTnezep TeqoT 
S,Jepeei eq} epy.ieao ATSATIOeTSS squeuuStsse Ajsuedoid peseys eu], 


{ 

{ 

/~ Uemoyseuty quoy sesn yf {°e268q3} Sup 
} IXaL NUOd 

{ 

/» COTISATEH QUOZ sesn ,/ { OTTeH} SsuD 

/» Buyzaqes TeooT »/ {eoTAeATeH} INO 
} IXaL Wadd 

{ 

/» SuTaQes peszeys ,/ {uewoysouyr} INO 
} IXaL d0dd 


SUFEQUOD P[NOO SLT JAI ue 


{ 
{ 
/~ Weuoysout], WUOZ sesn ,/ he Seer) aS 


{ 
/- SOTQ@EATEH Quoy sesn y/ {(, OTTOH,) IUT4d 
/» BHuyaqes TeOOT z/ ‘eOTIEATEH = Woz -4xXoR iNOd XE 


/» Suypaqes peszeys ,/ ‘uemoyseuTy = 3U0z 74x83 INOT LXaL 
} ¢:(etta 


/+ 3IMezep TeqoTh s,weshoid yf ‘/2zeFmMoD = WO 3XeQ INOT LXAL 


[@3T4M PINoo nod > uy exz]eqy ‘ebenbuert Suyumeshoid © Jo mspoTq 
peqseu ut sOutputq erqetsea se s6utqQes Aqsedoad yo yuTUL :Supdoog 


*ISII @ gouenbesqns 

yore Bfupyeu Aq setqsedoid Burpsreys spiog JO seouenbesqns eaey ued 
NOX *SIWD pue SISIT pe_seu 410 spo’ eu Jo Aue e1cojeq seedde Ysru 
SdOUd ©8432 [Te pue ‘od, WuOT @ JO Od GUO YSow Ae exvey Ae ISIT V 


uy’ <edkyuuiog>> ed Wud 103 setzsedoid pezeys ey} ele eley, “Suesw STUL 
{ »Aquedosg edAymiog }# ydOUd, =": dud 
SUNY Sep OU WITA WUOd B JO JEU SAFT SF dOUd & JO SQUSQUOS SUL 
*sHhuTq90S pereygS EY SPT-LIOBAO USS SWOT TENPTATPUI *Aquedoid deur 
AoToo,, euo pue Aj1edoid ,,OzTS, eUo ereYS UBS SAOTOO puewe SZTS sues eqR 
Mya sebeuy JO ASTI © ’oTduexe 40q ‘UoTIOedMOS pue UOTIOeATpUT WO 4A0J 
[Njesn ST SULIOJ JO YSTT & 103 snjQeQs pereys 03 shut }Ies AQuedoid euos 
SWeASTS 03 AITITTe STUL “ISIT Fea? UT SWOT SUR 103 seTz40edoud peseys 
Atddns Aeuy, * (SIWD 40 SWOd UT 20U) SISIT uy seodde Aeu sxuNyo Goud 


GI =:: edAzpsquequo5 
{ s(IW | ISIT | Wa0a) sadud CdATsQuequCD }# ,ISII, =": ISIT 


*peqeusjzeouce ATduTS Gre ST[SO EUR ‘ASTI POUTT 

Azsexjyqire ue 30U ST ISIT y “SUo ZxeUu EYyA 073 sSQUTOd eATIETOU & ST 
YUNYO peuTeRUOS Yee JO EZTSYO SUL “sepszo yeuR uy ’(SIyD pue ‘SISIT 
‘sWOd) SqUe_UCO peqsou eM pue ‘seTztedoid pezeys Teuoz {do ‘qr ,edAQ 
$UE}U0S,, w HuyuTeQUOD ,ISIT, GPP WTA »xuNYyS wv St [SIT & ’ATTenQON4g 
*poojsuepun ere SIUSeQUOS ATeuy sseTuN 

pebzeuw eq 30U PTNoYs SISIT ‘SIWD SxFTUN * (MOTeq GES) SaOYd 403 

edoos © seaT6 osTe 37 3Nq SeOp Ty SxTT yor dnow e seutjep ISIT V 


37 


So 
02 SUTLTTa eq 3Asnu suresboud ‘#404 ATTee1 03 ebueyorejuT u0z oO 


*zosted e st we.s6oud 

Aepeed FAT uy ‘ssxeedde 37 szepi0 10S ENA UT ezeyq ArTTenqoe st QeuA 

O23 WOE pue STTJ SyQ ueos 03 sey ue.Houd e 7eUuy SSTIGUT sTuL -e ep 
eHueqoxe ues sue.sboid Aueu 3eq} OS S[QTXSTJ ST pxepuejs sul o 


suetHoig sepeey 10j serny 


*SOTTZ 

esodimd-eT6uts zo 3no buTyjeuos Peet UCD SETTJ deios spee.1 3etQ we.hoid e 
ued, ‘edA, © Jo suotOes e.14x0 eiouby ‘Huypees ueya STqR UO AUN0D 3OU 

Op 3ng (‘seat ZeEUISATe EYW Jo EUO se eTqeqdesce st sqoefqo edAj-eures jo 
ISIT v) ‘edd Aue Jo eatqeuzeqQTe eu Ysou 7e eAEY PInoys e[tz desos y 


‘edAQ ,pertejeid, uso sqT 10; qo.1wes 

40 spuejsitepun 37 3eq3 edAQ Gupseedde ysu73 ey SSN JEIATS prnous 
wet6Hoid Butatecesz y °edA3 (eaTsueqeiduoo yseeT) pe.ieyeid ASPOT 02 
edA3 (eaTsuceye.idn0o 3Soul) pewezeid ysou ; yeouetejeid,, JO wep4so UT 
SUOTIEIUSSOAGGA SREUIOATE SU} OATIA PTnoys wesSoid BuyAeuTht10 ey, 


"002 STTZ dezos e Jo yno HuTuQeuos prow 

UES STTZ esodind-el[buTs ev pee. ueo 7eqy weshoid e ueql, ‘euo peztubcoce. 
35ATJ SGI AO SeUO pezTuboce.: eu peer 07 8 0efqo pezjuboce.zum .22eA0 dps 
PInoys sueiboid ‘Ty © 40 ISTT © ST ELTZ EM JI: (suotqdy4osep queum.x4suT 
TeoTsna se qons ‘synod peyseu HututTequoo ‘eu0cls TeoTsma e se tons ‘pod 
©j;s0dm0S @ sdeqyted) wuogd eT6uTs e Sq ITTA SeT}tz esodind-elbutTs jsoy 


ésqrI edAQ wuod 
AOVAOT-ANOJ WoOrJ SuCTSUEIXS SOd-sSH 28378T-SerT, SQe.zeueH 02 MOH :enssy 


"Saep ebueroxe 02 QUEA TTTA S.2esn TOTGA TATA suesGoid emqnz Aq pesn eq 03 


sedAyqns ey3 ynoqe Mow 3ouueS ey esneceq efueyqo.103uUT e3ep Sut 2°T-14sS0e1 
AjT4Aea0 2noyATA sedAAqns peoedxe SF 03 AQTULIozUOO pueuURSp jouUeD 
suetHoig “SeSN AUe1eJJTP eAey zeuyR edAQ Wuod sures eu jo S®ITJ seqesedes 
AT uUSeTUeAUOD AeUQ ywedAAqns,, 410 ussetoqns, e ATTenjoe st stu - zeqsenbex 
CueUusT Ts © UT SETTZ QueasTer EGA 40J 4OEATTJ 03 Aseo 3F eeu 02 uOCTsUe Axe 
cueuel TF Su; se edAQ ,esn pepuequT, ue xoTd Aeu suesn pue srcume.H01g 


"SGT edAQ Wad UO sucTIOTAQSe1 eyQ 
Sousy ‘peuTequoo elep egy JO edAQ Wuod eR ATTesr8UeS ST Az “sqUeQUOD 


S®Ttq esodind-epbuts 


"edAQ Teu1wzxXe S,ETTJ eqy 
Uy pue sj0efgo eJep eTdT3TMM Jo UoTIeIeA1deqUT eYA UT 42j;TP Aeuy, 
*S®TTZ de1tos pue settz esodund-oerbuts *SOTTZ AAI JO Spuyy 0MQ ore er08uL 


"PeAteSAL OTE ,6IVO, Wnom} TID, pue ’,,6SI7, yono.1y ulSITy 
*u6804, nowy ,THOd, SAI AGA st 3eUZ ,,°Suequmu UOCTFSISA, Se pesn eq. 


TITA SQI Suysoyoue eesqy eq} ‘prepuezS JzI SY} ESTASI OF pooU EAT 


"SIWD peqseu Jo dn epem jou St STTJ peuTquOo eyy WeNR os TWD e ST 
FEU? OTT anduy youe ,sdesmum, 31 “dnow6 yD erburs e oquT serTs aaI 
spuedde ATTeoTbor Aeq} STqeTTeAe eq TTTA wUFOCIaI, weshoid efscu y 


“S©TTJ Jal Suy3t4m pue Gutpees zo STTeI9p MOYS OF ETQeTTeEae 
osTe exe sue.foid etdurexg ‘suesboad 337 Sutptinq ueya Apuey eyTnb 


daI uyewop ofrtqnd ey ‘szejsuer eqep ysnqo.1 se.msue STQL ‘“SSTTS 
Suy3T4a pue Suppee.: ueya sorns OT3Q0e{UAS S, 7a SOA0ZUS PTNoYs sures60 


‘out © qe eed euo ‘queumoop efed STdt{Inu e se se.mjotd jo ISTLI 

8 ssedoid prnoo ‘eTdirexe 103 ’103Tpe sopydes6 w -Iw> 4o ISIT © ut 

s70efqo eu ITe eTpuey 3eq3 suesboud ©374A 02 pebemoous eve nox ‘sdno.6 
@37414/peet JeqQ sue.6oid WTA 4Ue{xXe Ue 03 SJeSTUMMMIOD UeD sjoefgGo erbuTs 
O37 4M4/peet eq} suesGoud ‘sq0efqo zo dno.6 e eq UBD OTTZ Jal ue esneceg 
“pesrouby ©q 03 exe pus Ss, x eR 40938 sqQUEqUOD ETT; Auy *y IWD, 40 
‘wESITy ‘yWaOd, :5°qAq smoz 3satz sqq Aq peztubooe1 eq ued eTTI daI ue 
"@A0JOIBUL “IW 40 ‘ISIT ‘Wadd edAQ Jo yump eTfuts & asnf st Slt; dal uy 


‘SISI'T EpTsut -teedde Atuo Aew sgoud ‘etdurexe 109 -xTpuedde 
STq} JO pue eyy ye ueATH sucTAdTA9Sep xequAs ey} O02 Gueupe Ys NOK oO 


*pueqssepun jou op no sqied Te.mjon.4s 

Adoo jou op ynq ‘ETT gal szeqjoue wosz (peTsTpow pue petdoo 10) 
petdoo noX suey Huyupequoo eTTz Meu e e7T4M Aeu nox *QuUeASTSUOCOUT 
8.1n70ON.4S HuTUTe_UOS eYA Ere PTNOS Jey] *‘wWeyy SACU 10 ppe jou 

Op pue spyog peqseu ey eoeTde1 pue ATpe jou op 3nq ‘ezfubooe. Aeqy 
zey3 sedk3 jo swuogd peqseu qno Adoo pue eTty e ouT xooT Aew suesHoig 
"@FESLD OF MOY MOU AOU Op NoA eu ETTZ & YTpe 03 AQ JOU Og 


° 


‘eqep St OFT 1M-UeeS 

ueq} /AUn0o wyybueT eqy eynduos oj ssed AxeutuyTTeud e exe (7) 40 
‘gunoo y36ueT dnos6 eq} 36S 03 yOeEq Sseooe uopues (j;3e5.103 You op) 
pue TeousoeTd eqep eyy ejy4m wees{s (¢) ‘O/I XOOT( esn pue sxD0Tq 
Asowsul uy ezep ey prtnq (Zz) ‘Asowow TenqATA ojuT peddeu eTTs e UT 
ezep eu prtnq (1) :dnos6 gay ue B5uyzyz4m s0J senbyzuyoe, anogz 


O 


° 


‘yungo yqbue[-ppo yore seqze e7iq ped 0 & SRTIM 02 Webs0J JOU Og 


*y w Pue ’.6IWD, Wnomy yTIW, ’u680dy 
ybnorwy THOS, ’.6SIT, Wonomm ,TSIT, ere se ‘persweso1 ATTeSOATUN 
ere SGI ee. eseyy ‘sxunyo Aq pemoT{To3 qr edAqqns e ufequoo 
sXeate Aeyy, ‘oTszeueb ere Ty pue ‘dOYd ‘NOU ‘ISIT sedAQ xn oO 


‘pus yuNGo eq 
JOAJe EYEp OU OE PTNoYS exeUL “OZTSIO ONCT © Aq PEMOTTIOS °,, TWD, 40 
‘IST Ty ‘yW80d, S2eQ0eTeYD aNoJ eA ATA 74e3S ASM OTTZ SB-aaI Auy O 


*xUNy IVD AO ‘ISI ‘WHOd STOuTs & ST SITS aaI UW O 


oO RATIZAeY, wes6oid 

e[direxe euA eeS ‘pediojue eq ATTeEOTWEWOANE TTA STTeIop pue seTNi 
eseuq zo Aueu (,e7emgzos Qu40ddns,, Ses) ,O°MdaI, STNpou 

JORTIA FIT pszepueqs eyqQ esn nod zy ‘weqy Suypeei ueyA seTsee Wom st 
UOTUA ‘SOLTJ aaI S3FAM QeqQ sueshoiud Hufpttnq uo sejou eulos eue GuSy 


suresH0ig JOIT4AM AOJ se TNy 


*SNWOd JO SpPTsuyT 

swuod pees noX jf szepPpt.a sqeH STUL “XXX WHOI SUR UT Atrenqoe sojungo 
et e10yeq peueedde AoyQ JT se ‘sEpso UT “XXKXK SdOUd pesequeuei [TS 
UT So~MpO eT UeoS ‘pereQUNOoUSs ST XXXX WuOd & USUM *(ISIT Suyufequoo 
eu JO pue egy) edoos sqt jo pus ey buyyoeer uo yore Huyajeb.s0z 
‘perequNooue SdOYd Jequewes Asnf prnos UOT Ae_AUCUIS[GNT Se_eUteALTe uy 


‘eurety HOeAS Wuewmd)d 

eq} UT pezeTMUMece shuTQ30s Aj1edoid eq} esn ‘UNG XdOd S,NaTI St 
03 306 Arreuty noX ueqm ‘aw 'WATI Aquedoid deut sojoo e pue CHWd WaTI 
Ka.1edo1id sepeey deuntq e 103 eoelTd © seq cureszy OeRS Gore ‘WATIAOUS 
‘e[duexe euA Ul ‘Sues YOeIS QUSELINO ENR OVUT Set edoid perequNOOUS 


“STTEIOP OJ ,O’WATINOYS,, wesHoid eTdirexe eq} pue 

ud’ Usa, STNpou szepees FAT Tes8ueh ey, Ses “SdOdd pue SISIT sseooid 03 
Moy SezTrewms ydeshesed qxou eq] ‘szeume.tH0id PTGerquT e10ul EY 407 
‘@LTZ sed wuog euo ATuo eqT4K/peei Qeqy suesHoid pring ‘noA 03 upfeu0j 
ST STUQ JI ‘Soulety »peIS TATA Ssuejeidiequy UT puNoc.hyjoeq eulos peou 
LITA nox jeTauTS Jou st sMYO gOud HuTsseso.g :sreumresHoid 02 SION 


*semjoTd TTf3S upequoo Aew eT TZ 

uoT_euTUe Ue pue ‘sUCTIGTAOSep QUeUMAQSUT pe SEU UFeUOS Xeur 8.10038 

Teojtsnu e ‘eTdmexe 40q ‘ezpuboce1 op Asq eu} sedAQ WYO peqseu 40j 
SyWUOI pezjubooe.zum oUyT HOOT OF HuT TIA exe szepeoes YseoTu euL oO 


‘TTS ye euou 40 ejep 
900.1109 eq3 366 03 st eepT eur “AtTsedoid (sxmyo d0ud ut) setz1zedoad 
pereys ssoooid qsnum noA ‘ISIT & OAUT AOOT Op noX JI ‘OTT @ Worsy WOd 
ASATJ SUG peer oj ASnf JT UEAS ‘SISIT OTpueY Wey SSOY Sue SiepeS1 
,SuTuLozuoco-aar ATINg, “SISIT dpis ATeqeTduoo suepees gal 4eTdITS 0 
*WHOd ASAT 


eq esn 3snf 10 ySno.1q eouenbes 03 sebed quoumoop exTT swuod SU 
qeesq Ae nox ‘elTZ © UT SWAOA JO Iwo & STpueY OF AWHNO Suspeey oO 


‘syungo Aq pesottos dI edAjqns e ufequoo sheaTte 
Keuy, ‘sdnos6 oyseueb ere [WD pue ‘dOUd ‘NNO “ISIT sedéQ yunyD 0 
-syunuo yQbueT-ppo Axess 20338 e7Aq ped eq dys 03 yebs0y Jou og 0 


*3SO18RUT JO SIV) pue ‘SISIT 

‘SWOT peqseu Joy AF uecs TITAS ueo nok ‘edAQ WA Ody ezTubooe1 

jou op nok 37 ueag ,SxUMYo TeOOT, peuTequoo ey} pueyssepun 03 qI edéQ 
W3O0d SIF EzTUbooe. Qsnm noh ‘zequnooue noA »xunq waod Aue 40q oO 


*SQUeQUOS SIT pueqsiepuN OF 

qr dk sqT eztubooe: ysrm noX ‘szequnooue nod xunyo Aue soz 0 
‘SITS G@-aaI ue 

0U ST 2T ‘4 TWOu 2° ‘ulSITy ‘sWdOd, WTA WeAS Jou Seop AF JI O 


39 


*sex7oeg pue MAAI 

SITeO MNATI °*sejoequn pue wa STTeS UWaTI “WaT Wed 

eGeuy 109Se1 Joy seuT|{no. q10ddns 167 74M pue Jepeey 
O'MAPIE ‘O° UNATI “HAWAII 


“SOLT3 WATI 4103 pesn zepocep pue epooue uny 
DQ aexoeguyn ‘O° szeNoed “H’ eDOWd 


*sojunygo eyy JO 
SUTTINO ue sqUTAd pue ‘pemLioZ [TEM Sie SWUSQUOS SYA 3eUR 
speyo ‘STTZ Jal ue sueos wesfoud AQTTFI{n Apueyq STUL 

2° 79eq Aa 


“SOTTS gal Huratia pue buppeer ATqetTe1 JO STFeISEp Eq JO 
Aveul eTpuey setnpou eseqy ‘eHexped s6Q74M pue Jopeet gaat 
O°MdaI ‘O° UdaI °H’ ddI 


*x}puedde stu} 
Jo pus egy 3e pumoz eq ueo Asyy, ‘sure.houd erqrzedmoo-g7ay Huyprynq ut 
@sn 10J ETGeTTeae ere suresHboid eo.mos o uTeuop-ofF{gnd HuyTMo[ To} eu] 


COPTA 36S UOTION-IQSUOD CEPTA SxNTed OACA 
@100S [eOTsnM eTGITS SNWS 


GOTFOA punos peTdies 374-8 XASB 
: SMOTTOJ 
Se peuTsep wre ere exoge peuTT3{no AtTTeoTsToeds Jou sqr Tejoeds eyy 


"WENN ‘NSO ‘dWDO ‘NdDO ‘WOdO 
sqI Aqsedoad ISII dOudd 


WiOd UT USPPTqioz e1e sopteU UOTIJeEN QOUNd puUe S1OIIET SSEO 4AGNCT 
(“sqr edXkQ paod 403 pesn eq jou Aeu sqy >unyo dnow6 eacge eur, 
sqI edAQ Wwuodg 
‘“6IWD I TIWD ‘6SII I TSIT ’6Wd I THOS 
SdI >unyo dnosb uoystass eungng 
‘IWD ‘dOUd ‘ISIT ‘WaOd 
SqI yunyo dno.) 


“sqeuLioy wep pue SGT GSOWTOeW Sus 
MOLI0d OSTE ITTA &M “SCI NYS peutzep ATQUaLMS Jo SeTqe © ST STUL 


wl) ee 


Tese3FI *seqAq ejep {pece aa) Buyao tt OJ Sq JO BUND ONOT EZTHH & 
squeseidet ,#, Ue02 eqW ‘UOT IeROU UOTSSeidxe ueTnbe1 pepue_xe stu ul 


{ ,»Aqedoig edéyuii0eg }# ,dOYd, =": dud 

{ x(Iw | Ist | waoa) va0dd edATsquequop }# ,ISIT, =": ISIT 
GI ,edAQ eqep Qoensqe, ue 40 QUTG @ -- QI =:: edAysquequo) 

{ s(qwo | aST1 | WaOa) edArsquequey HE 4, IW, =: IWD 
yunqp | Aquedoig =:: yuNQDTeOOT 

GI =:: edAjui0 3 

{ s(tw | Isrt | paca | ummpTe007) edkymiog + ,WaOd, =: WO 
yunyD =:: Aq 10d01g 

(o] { saLxan }# GI =:: unt) 


‘queumoop STUQ UT sUOTITUTJEep xequAS ey JO UOTIOETIOO & ST eiEH 





,1s%,T)GTOeN  ISIT AI eutzepit 
»/.d J QTE WOT AI SuTsep# 
/* °*SQI peAteses ATTRQOTD »/ 


( (Pp) | g@>>>> be | 9T>>>>(a) | ¥2>>>>(e) ) (p’o’a’e) aTeTeEW euTzEPH 


J+ yu, Wnomwy , , UT suey F y/ ‘dI SNOT JepedA3 
‘Is -> SOTIIEI 00089 403 sePTTNg pue zopedAa qr y/ 


syunup { 
‘[/~ ©ZtS10 s/leqye@p aLxan 
ls (eqe@p) zoozTs x/ : arf — 
PP 
} 30na93 zepedhy 


/s ,u, Wnomy , , UT suewp FH ;/ ‘(ear azeqo zepedAy 


¥ 
/+ peubtsun sazqg +/ 

/* °D S0F32eT 00089 UT pesseidxe ‘sedAQ gal psrepueqs ,/ 
“GUT? STTdOS Ae Sq] Sseq} SPITnq ,CIOXEN, OAOEW VW ,,°ONOT, @ SB 
GI SUTJEP GA JF EPO UOSTAedMOD WUSTOTJJO SeONpoid D SOTIAeT 00089 
‘O[CUIEXe 10g *‘JO[TGMOOS pue nd eqQ qqQTA AJeA LITA SoTQOe1d UT esn 02 
SuoT_eseloeg °“seinjonz4s Fal prepueqs eqy4sosep syepedAA o BuymMo[[oj oul 


40 


‘ypeuDIgII eT & SUTTINO ue 


ST 
qu6T41 eq} uo 4xeq euQ ‘uTeby °Az.1edo1d gyyD ucumco e pue Aj.1edoid GHW. 
STQL 


uommoo © Huyzeys WATT SWHUOI OM3 JO ISI e€ sMoys wesheTp pucces 


$oeewe coco w ewww www www wwe wn nw wo wow woe == + 


| 0 ’o ‘ol 

ooope xGOCa’—sid| 00082 zac, | 

pa esecsekeceencccccesecesseescece==+ 

| 0 | 

| +-------------------------------+ | 

| 1 °° 20°0’89 “0 ’o ‘ze 20 ’o ‘ol | 

TZ dD’ | i TZ sd, | | 
wemewee mmo eeoeow ooo eeo en owe owe + 

11 °° ‘0 ’o ’€ ’o ’0 “oor ‘oze | I 

oz acum’ i | 0Z ,cund, | | 

| +-------------------------------+ { 

fo menswcwccccconccececencoesennonee-t 

{ ,RATLI, | 

gS eseSSeeeeccsSeeroenesescecess cast 

WIdI 0L0bZ Waa 0L00Z «WA, | 


Powwow ww wwe woe ww www ewww www omen nnn not 


“OLTJ AeTNoTQwed sTyR 103 

wetHoid AQTTFI{N »xeupgaT eq Aq pequyad eq prnom AeqR SUTTINO Sq} 
saoys wesHetTp eqq JO 3YHT.1 eqy 02 3xeQq EU] ‘q7HueT ppo ue sey xuNTO 
d¥KD 84} eSNeseq pepntouT ‘ejAq ped o1ez © squeseidet yUNYS dYAD St 
JORZE 0, SUL “pesseidmooun souetd 3tq € x sTextd 00z xX OZE ST 2zeqSe4 
geTnoTzsed STUL, *XGOd ~uUNYo eWep szeqse1 e pue ‘gy MY AZ2edord dew 
4JoToo & ‘CHW »~UNGS AjZedoid sepeeq deuntq © suTeqUCO WUOd STGL ‘WaTII 


WiOI CHeuy szoAser & ‘ELT JAI STduexe ue A0j wesheyTp xoq V ST eucH - 


‘deuntq @ 103 eqep jo uot IeQUeseide1r eHenhue[-D & Ano sqUTig 


9° Oo qUTIdng 


*S©ITZ D uF BurpntouT 03 
uoT_eAueseider TToOse Qno squTud ‘’STTS WATII Ut eed 
O° GIMpugy Ft 


‘o76 02 [Teo eTdues 
2° TTeooT6 


“speet pue seqtim Buzsezznq Aq O/I ASTP 

peeds 03 sqdueqqy ‘ebejoed dnpeods 0/I ofs08ue9 
o°'OTD ‘H'OID 

| “OLTZ WATI ue 

se 37 eaes ‘deal 10TOS © pue deujtq e UusATD 
o°20TdINd ‘H’ IOIdINd 


‘dew 10TOo @ pue deugtq & OIUT 3F peet ‘OTTJ WATI ue UEATD 


o°30Fgpeey “H’ LOIddwad 


‘petztoeds ATQ0e.1100 sepnTout jo eouenbes eq} TATA 
S[TJ-epntouy ,SupqqAuene YSOUTe EpNToUT, OfseUueH 
H’ TIWNINI 


‘seTdexe eseyj UT pesn seuTQno.1 uoTIeCOTTe A1cHEW 
o°ooTTeusy “HH OOTIVNAd 


-eHeuy 409SE1 MEL B OQUT AT SORTA pue 
SLT3 WITT Waod © speey -wesfoid sepeos WaT eT duexg 
2° ABAZWETI 


“OTT WAII Wad & se 

eGeuy oul S0QT4AM pue eTTy eHeuly 28 jSse1 Avi B Speot 

QT ‘uoTIezQSUCUEP & sy ‘wesHoid 48RT4M WATT OTdmexg 
O° RATIZACY 


‘WITI Waod @ sXetdstp pue spee.x wesfoid ehtuy-e10poumo) 


STQL ‘SO[Npou WA II pue YAAI JO OT [eo or duexy 
O' WaTIA0gS 


ehjuy-eropommon ‘ysTem Arteg 

SJuy OyUOAQOSET_ ‘MeYS SASS 

Squy oTu01}Q0eTY_ ’sexTY besp 

Squy oTUCI{0eTA ‘uOsTtzs0W Aries 
ebTuly-S10poumloD ‘TeOTW “Lf ‘U 
ebhTuy-S10poumlog ‘suing ,1eTPOM, Ad 


spxepuejs ggqI STUQ JO ubTSep eYyA 02 peynqT.quoo eTdoed HuyAoTIoJs SUL 


000v2 ACOd*’ 


WATI 2T0v2 WaO0d" 


AGOd* ° 


00002 


WATI 72T0v2 WdOd" 


T2 dvWD’* 


02 CHW’ 


WaTI 729 dOdud" 
Wy vItsy csi 


eeeeewoce ewer eee mew ewer ee eee eee woe eowoococe + 
po ce nn nnn enn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn eee ee + | 
| ¢--------- + - = - - -  - - ------ -- + | | 
i | se "9 ‘Oo ‘ol of OI 
| | 000%Z ,xacod,| { | 
| teen n nnn nnn en nnn nnn n nnn no ---- + | | 
power enene-ne-2---- iusiecerasesenou + | 
( Wa7I,! | 
scsedeasee Sveesedescees eesetete eee + | 
i ZT0bZ swaod,! | 
$oece noone nnn nnn n----- nen n nn e= == === + | 
Poon e nnn www wenn na nn eee n sn nnnnn === + | 
| +----------------------------- + | | 
i | | “= "9 ‘go ‘ol I of 
| | 000%Z ,xcod,! { | 
| +----------------------------- + {| i 
$e weewcecncw cores weer enw cecenoncoce + | 
l WaTI,! | 
gone en noe wee ewww nano eccn= ceeneen= + | 
| ZT0bZ swaoa,! | 
powwow nn ene n nn ee ee eo eee = == -- + | 
$e ewww ween en nn ewe we ween ene ce een nnn= + | 
{ o! | 
| 4--------------- 5 - - - eee - +{ | 
1 | °° £0°0’°89 ‘0 ‘o ‘ze 70 ’o ‘oll | 
i | TZ saw, I || 
| ¢----- nnn nnn nnn nn nnn neo lt | 
lt occ: ’0 ’o ‘e ‘o ‘0 “oor ’oze | I i 
i | 0z .cuwa, | || 
| +------------------------------- +1 | 
$e ene nnn ww we nnn nn en nnn nn ee = = === + | 
| WalI,! | 
$eeccen- we wecc ween cw wwe wwe ene -----== + | 
| z9 .doud, | | 
$aecclccoce= eeeceseu= eeGecesteeaeae + | 

AWWW, | 

wnreececocecece Seemeawe ew eoeosocececoecoeoece eeeereeno—— + 
vITSD sLSIT, | 

sseewrecnwroooce eeveeve wren e ee ee ee ++ 


B - 42 


‘ebewy sedeep e oqutT efeuy euq BuyHisw 103 STTeo yuNYoO 
ISId © JF SeueTqu ue sedsep eq Aeu yoTyM ‘deugtq uoTAeUT Sep ety 
uy stextd Aq peulioy sen[eA xeput deul 4oTOo exe SuequMU AOTOD :S870N 


*deut 10TOo' e e109S 03 Aem popucuMloce. 
eu2 ST 0 = Seuetqu pue Xq0g OU 3nd dW & UTA WTI UW “SeueTqu Ut 
pesojs st (MoTeq ees) »xuny> xG0Oq SUuQ UT seueTdATq eounos jo s4equMU SU], 


"(0 °0) = (A ’x) ST WaTI ue 

HuyAT4Am A0J A[Neyop eyes y ‘A pue x ououbHyt Aew suetHoid sepeo.1 eUloS 
‘eNQOTA uoTAeUTASep SUA UTUATA ebeuy sTYyQ Jo uoTATSod peitsep ey 
eqeotpuy A pue x sprtetz eu, ° (91T/ms)5utTteD sf Mor sod spi0om Jo szequmu eu], 
*SPAOM FQ OT JO sequmu TeibeqUT Ue UT peiojs ST} ebeuy Syy JO MOA YORT 
“stextd uy eTHuej0e1 ebeuy ey JO OZTS SYA SQeEOTpPUT Y pue A SPTSTZ SUL 


*pexoed-e7Aq ere SPIeTZ ALAGN SUL “UMOCYS JEps1o SYA UT PEeTTJ xe SPTSTT 


| ‘zepeoydepata { 

/* stextd uy ezts ,obed,, eoumos ,/ ‘qu6jepqebed ‘uaptmedbed qyom 
/+ Hey : WPTA oFWea e ‘Qoedse Textd y/ ‘joedsyA ‘’joedsyx aLAGN 
/+ (30 240s) ,,2eqQUMU 4A0TOD, Queredsuerg y/ /40TODQUeredsuez CYOMN 
/+ S204 9 3nd ‘AoUeYSTSUCo 40J ‘pesnun ,/ ‘tped aLxan 
SUOFSSEAGIIOD UOTSseAduloD 

{‘Huypyseu HupPsey 

/» souetTaatq eommos # 4/ ‘seueTqu aLxGN 


/y CHeuzy styA 103 uopyTsod textd ,/ K ‘x daoM 
/~= stextd uy qubtey + WAPTA seyser y/ q ‘A GaOMNn 
} Aona3s jepedAA 


T TunyezAgd eutyopt 
Q SUONGID eUTjzepH 
/= {SMO SSOI0e Sseidm0D AOU Og ‘xTpuedde sTuyQ UF 4SIeT peqT4sosep y 
Huypooue uns e7hq eu ST ,,TUNyezAgduo,, ‘souetd seul pue GO.nos , 
Tle JO SMor OYA 02 peT[dde umMT40bTe uoTsseiduloo Jo eoTOYO ,/ 
‘uoTsseidmoD ALAAN JepedAR 


/~+ ‘enbtuyoe; Guyysem yo eojoyo y/ ‘bupysew ZLAdN JepedAy 


“MOTTOZ OF UNG XGO_ EGR pueAsszepuN 

03 Axesseceu eqep Sutpniouy ‘ebeuy eyQ jo Huypooue pue suoTsSuseUTp 
GUA SeqT4oSep AI “UuoT_Ae\UeUMOOp HuTMoTTOJ Sey pue suocTAex1el[Sep OD 
eseuy UT peuTjep se sepeeydey{tg e SpIoy ,CHWd, Aqsedoad pexpnbe. SUL 


CHW 


(-owem ,S@ JaI Wa, © 99S) 

"WATI dOUd © UF wou Huyyqnd Aq wal SWYOI JO ISIT © ASA pezeys oq 
Xew setqedoid esey3 yo Auy (‘snonytjsedns ere sezqsedoid HuyMoT [OJ 
Aue ‘funy XG0q euo ATuO seq WaTI ue esneceg) ‘xuNYS ,,xdG0d,, Aue erojzeq 
aeodde 3snu setjuedoid Teuoyydo Aue pue ,qHNd, AQzedoad peszpnbe. ey], 


SaILadadOdd CaVGNWLS 


‘OUr ’taqndioD etddy zo yxreweperg © st [ug] QuTegoeN 

‘our ‘zeqndmoD etddy 03 pesuectT yszeuepeszy e st [uy] ysoquToENW 
‘Squy OTUCA}OSTY_ JO »xAseuepesy e ST [uy] szszy oFU0IQOeTY 

‘our ‘ebyuYy-er0poumiog jo yreweperq © st [uy] ebyuy 


‘S©LTJ AAI [Te 103 suoTAueauos HuyATsepun 
SYR SeqTtosep SeTTg Weuwiog ehueyosequ] 4103 paepueys Se Jal Wan 


‘TexTd YRS UT SREP LOTOO eNn13 UATA SieqNdOS 40j Ee ZeT1do.1dde 

©q PINOM WA'TI 02 SATIEUEATe UY ‘“S1eqNdUIOS 4eYyAO UO ESN 40J pezTTeszeueb 
qnq exzesp.rey eftuy-e10powmiog eu UO peseq Sue SQUSURTeS SUIOS *,,yUNUD eed 
prepuejs, PS&TI}RUS UCT}OeS SYR UT UEATH exe QnokeT 4AeqSe1 GY} JO STTeIST 


‘peuTe[dxe st sueyos HutTpooue uns TeuoTAdo 

eu pue ‘uresHeTp xoq e se pue uoTsseidxe sertnhbei e se yA0q pozTseums 

sy xequAs waTI eu ‘ATTeuTgA ‘4zezeT peppe eq ued useRqQed O.1n{xXeQ OTT 
SYUNYO pez;Tepoods TeuctITppy °,,ONA, AUNYo ezep ebuer s0TOO p.repuejsuou 
SY SEUTJEp UOTIOSS QYxoU SUL *,,ACOG, AUNYO eRep prepueys pue ’ WWD, 
epou quodmetA ebTuly-e10pouMIoD ’,,1YdS, UCTFEuozuy eqTads ’,,ISHd,, eIeP 
ebzeu uot zeUTASep ’,,qWuD, WOdsj0y ‘,,dvND, dew 40TOO ’,dHWd, Jopeey deuntq 
sxunyo Ajz1edoid :sxunyo ,,prepueqs, JO Jeuioy pue asodind ey} eUuTsJep 
SUOTIOOS OMQ ASATJ SUL “WATI WHOA 103 Quewetddns Fal ey} ST CWSU STUL 


‘Teep 7ees6H © YSTTdMOOCe 09 SpeoUu JeULIOJ GUO STA OS 

“STTeqep eTRqns BHBuyuTejuTeU eTTUM suesH0id eATZeA]edooo ATybTY 30 wesboid 
e [buts © A0J eep G10J9S 02 O TITA SeSN seUQO ‘SQUeUUIOATAUS eQeredsTp 
sso10e STQTssod se uoTReULIOJUT Yoru se eAIESOId 03.8q TITM WATI JO sesn 
eulog ‘sotudes6 pe.mjonz43s pue eouenbes uoTjeurfue se wyons swod ddI 
@YTSoduoo 10j HOoTq Hbutpttnq e se popuequT osTe st WaT ‘wesoid juyed e 
JOJ EAWeETed 40 UCT_OSTES dew uoTOO e uQTA ebeuy AQdwe ue ‘putyA puy 


‘uo OS pue ‘deul u0TOO ‘’uqdep UMO SqT sey ZeqA e-mj0 Td sebhtq e ojuT pebucu 


eq 03 pepuequy ebeuy ue ’puocesg -(°oj70 ‘dew s0T0o ‘ezTs ‘uoTANnTose.) 
ztesat Aetdstp 03 soy ATIOexe seTzfoeds jeyj ebeuy euoTe-puejs e ST IF 
‘ASUTA °sesn seq 403 pouhTsep uoTIeQueseider [eATWYOIe ue ST WATI UV 


(‘eouszeyet JaAT EGR ees) ‘euoO Jo qed & 40 OTTJ 

aaI we eq ued yoTUM ’,,edAQ WuOd, 40 ,UOTQOeS eRep, FAI ue ST WATI UY 
‘dew sooo uta obeuy deywatg eueTdqytq peaeeysequr ue ATTeoTz FOeds 
‘eBeut softydes6 seAsei [TeUOCTSUSUTTP-0OMR e& AOJ QEULIOJ © ST ,WOTIy 

‘SOTTJ Weui0z ebueyossquy 40z pazepuejAs , Sly OfFUOAQOCTYZ ST ,,S8 ddI Way 


@Ssn UT pue peseeTey :sn {eqs 
Sqiy OfUuO.QCeT, ‘uosTu0o Auer :wo1g 
986T ‘LT Axenuer = :eqeg 


Geuntg peaeeTJequ] Jal ,WATI, 


B - 43 


UF S3TQ ,,T, (“pexrous} eq prnoys sqtq szeps0 seuStYy Auy) *930 ‘9 eueTdatq 
GATA 0 AT@ ‘“SseueTdATq uoTAeUTASep UATA eU0-03-eUO puodse.110D ysSepouetd 
pue ‘zzQUQeUeTd ‘xOTgoUeTd UT S{Tq JO sequMU YAdeP 4EP40-MOT SUL 


‘ebseynseq { 
/y OWUT @103S 03 seueTdATq GOTUM sR0eTes y/ = ‘#sewoueTd GYOMN 
/» AOTqeuetd 103 eyep suetdgtq Arnejep y/ /zzQUCGeUeTd GuOMN 
/» UoTeUTASEep OQUT SeUeTdATq ed.1M0S 1093e0S 03 MO »/ /OTQeUeTd CYOMN 
/~ 9284 0 4nd AoueqAsTsuos 403 ‘pesnun ,/ ‘tped FLAGN 
/+ SOMOS TeuThT10 SYA UT seueTdaTq # : 


sem jona4s ebsey_Aseq ST xUNyS JSgd e JO squeQUOO SY], 

‘ISsaq e1zouby Aeuy 

Suepeei eulog ‘eheuly uoTIeUTASep sedeep e oRUT seUeTdATq eo.mos sUCU 
4O O4ez seq We0S 03 Moy Aes 03 Aem © st , S90, Aqtedoid Teuotjdo suzy 


rIsad 

‘aqzquyog { 

/y (stexfd) sezeutpscee eat QeTOL ,/ :& °X (OM 
} 30na3s jepedé, 


“dequypod © suyequos yunygo qwy W ,,°Usnaq Qured,, e so s0s.mo 
esnow © se pesn ueuM ‘eTdirexo AOJ--AGUIOD AJeT seddn sjqt 02 eATWQeTOU ebeuT 
S43 JO ,2OdS}0Y,, 4O ,eTPUeY, e SeQecoT ,qvwuy, Aquedoad Teuot3do eUL 


avwo 


“OZTSY SU UF pepnTouT 
you ’ezhq 9 © Aq peMoT[OJ eq PTNOM seT.qQUe Jo 4eqUMU ppo Ue QTM deu 
A0TOS © os ‘uRHuel ueAe ue 03 pepped eq ysnu »xunyo Auene QeTQ JOEqUBUDY 


/~ “POTTZ AON “JeMA0Z WY ebTUY ,/ ‘ysopop { 
‘y: eNTq “y: ueeiH ‘y: pox ‘HY: Tped peubtTsun 


(“satq % OQUT PETZ egy »~Oed 03 sSeTTdMCO 5 ENR STIR ,b:,, SUZ) 
“SOV COPTA 3Tq-% Sey YOTYM ‘zeqndmeo ehbyuy ue jo A1cusu Supy10M ut 
A@ASTHel AOTOO & JO YeULI0J eYW sqUeSeidet P10TOD edhQ S[aIexe SUL, 


"szeqsTbei 10TOo e1jxe Aue exoubl ‘peeu noX uenq 

SJS{STHeA AOTOO JeMey sey 10 QueSqe ST deul 40TOS eu 3Tt SQrInejep esn 
‘WATI ue Hutpeei uM ‘SUOFANTOSeA AOTOO WUSIEJJTP UTA SQUSUUOATAUS Sso10e 
sobeuy JO UOTSABAUOD OTREUIOANe sonSeTYOe STUL, “MOTeQ ‘HIOTOD se yons 
yeuioy pexoed Teco, e ut PTeTZ e (wo.1z) 03 47 UbTSse pue (6uTIT4M UO 
3J@T 410) Hutpees uo QUHT4 PTETJ wee AZTUS “SITq sep410-uHTY EL esn 
‘UOFANTOSSA AOTOO Sse—T sey euTyoeu wmoA JI °(0 ‘0 ’6) SF xOeTG pue 

(ssz ‘ssz ‘scz) st ©3TUM ‘suag9gz/egz YOO 9 ebuer ENA UT SeNTeA 
AQ}sueUT TeuoT{Oesz AUeseidei enTq pue ’uee26 ‘pei sjueUucdOD 40[0O SU, 


/= seqzhq ug = ozs ,/ ? [uJ deyuojtop seqsTeysotop jzepedAy 
/y sexkq € = ozts yf SsesTheysojon { 


/+ SS@°°@ SOTIFSUEQUT 4OTOD yf ‘enTq ‘ueCes6 ‘per ALAN 
} 20n138 jzepedhy 


(-squewete e3Aq-¢ jo sfke.re peed squewerdny 3eqQ s0eTtTdm0S > e& cumsse 
syepedA3 eseyl) “MoTeq peutjep se Ae.ze dewiotop & suTe_UCD NUNUD GYD W 


"seueTquz Tenbe 

PINom u ’ATTEULION “¢/ezTS>p eq ST u SsnuZ ‘seqAq UC HuTTeI0R ‘T-uU 
Qhnozgy 9 2epio ey UT pei0;AS oe (,SteqsT6e1 101[09,,) seTaque deu 
AoTOo U eUy, ‘sentea AQTSuejUyT enTq pue ‘useesH ‘per jo sqeTdT4q se 
e7ep deul 40T0o Sei07s ,dvWD, Aquedoid (peBe.mooue 3nq) [euot do euy 


dv) 


(-aBed eqq ueq, s06.reT ‘eq ues 

ebeut ey) ‘obeuy egy ys 03 AeWI0; Xetdstp eu jes ATTeoTzeuoqne 03 

Jo ebeuy ue eTeds 03 pesn eq WUT UOTWeEUIOJUT STU ‘AeTdstp eSjuy 
UOFINTOSSA-MOT © 40J (007 ‘OzE) ‘eTduexe 103--3uHyeyebed pue waptmebed ut 
peiojs st (eoTAep seqse1 Aue) ,ebed,, eoimos eyy jo sTextd UT @ZTS SU], 


*(yysoqufoey) T : T pue (Aetdstp o0z x oze 
e6yuy) TT * OT = 3u6;eq : UQPTA ere OFQe1 Qoedse 40z SonTeEA TeoTdAL 


qoedsypeutsegxgZqoedsyA = joedsype.tseqh%qoedsyx 


3803 ST}. St ATA petediios AT}0e.1100 eq 

skemTe ued sotze1 Qoedse 3nq ‘suepeeydepntg ut suot_oe.1z sedoud 0.103S 
suetHoid .moX ey} pepucumoce.s ST AI ° qUuHteu/qAPTA s, Textd e squeseides 
qoedsyA/j0edsyx uot}0e.3 euL ‘sTexTd jo sqytun ut ere YOTUM ‘QUbTeHEbed 
pue ‘uyptmebed ‘A ‘x ‘y ‘mM spreTs eq} JeadsequT dtey 03 10 sqoedse 
JUSISJFTP AojJ ejesuedmos 07 sue.hoid Aq pesn eq Aew stu, *Qo0edsyA pue 
qoedsyx SPTSTs 0M} eyW UT OTIZe1 © Se pei0RS ST OTWFeA Qoedse TexTd SUZ 


°0 © PTNoys s0TODQuer1edsuerQ ‘esTmseqIO ° (eAcge ees) 
osseP{sul 40 JOTODQuUeredsuerlseppisu st Huyysew y¢ ATuo setidde stuy 
4 quertedsuet3,, sues Uteqzed 37q GOTUA seTjtToeds s0ToDquexzedsue13 SU], 


‘@mMyny ey} UF pesn 3eH prnoo prety sTuL 
*AQUSYSTSUOD 10J 9 03 36S eq ASMm pue eqhq ped © st Tped prety eUL 


"xfpuedde sty} UT 16ZeT peqUeUMSOp st TuNyeIAq HuTpooue uN. eZ 
“eTQTssod se sHutpooue uoTsseidil0S mez se AoTdUIm TITM OM OS ‘uNQT4ObTe 
UoTsseiduiocep Suto jeu ey AueweTduT jou Oop qeyq 3 sue.sHoid Aq etqepee.zun 
e3ep «nod sarjeul uoTsseiduoo e ep HuTsn Wey SteMeg *‘UOTSSO1IGIOO 

UF PEetOIS ST pesn uoTsseidilod ejep Jo put eyA HuTWeoTpuT epoo y 


‘wyAF4A0bTe osset e eqAeu pue suetd yseur e 03 410T09 
quetedsuet3 e HuTIAEAUOS 103 WyATAOHTe ue epn[ouy :enssf 


*quesedsuesz3 ©q 03 O1e STOXTd Pelt *1eps0g STU} WOIz TITJ pees & op ue] 


‘eTbuejq0e1 Shey ey pumorze s0TODQUe.1edsue 13 JO tepi0g [extTd-T e 3nd 
“STU OP OL *yqUTeqOeW UT Se ebewy oyQ Hutosse, Aq seu e QoON1QsSUCO 

Aew Jepeed SYR SOREOTPUT ossepisu onTea Sul (*‘MoTeq ,,’d¥HD, 92S) 
*SteqsTbei 40TOO eA jo suo HuT.0UubT SeTTdIT 4s0TOo jQuexzedsue13 e SuTAey 
Feu SION ‘deuntTq uoTIeUTASep sedeep ATqTssod eu} uUeYyQ sz0eUuqQe1 deuntq 
So2no0s eyy Aq peulioy susqumU 4QTA peyozeU ST 4T esneceq ,,Jequmu AOTOO, e 
qOU SF A0TODjQueredsuer ‘ATTenQOVY) wy’ qUetedsuet],, PesspTsucos eq 03 ee 
AoToDjuerzedsueiq Huyyozeu seuetd eo.mos euyy uT STextTd AeuA sezectputT 
A0TODjuezedsuesLSe}PISM ENTeA SY], * (MOTeq ees) »UMTO AGOG ENA UT seueTdaTq 
OU7 UTA Peake seqUy st eueTd yseu © 3eqQ SUES ASEWSE;PISW ONTeA eU, 
‘ebeuy szertnHue,0e1 enbedo ue SezeubTsep euo;pisu eNTeA euy ‘eHewy stTuy 
AOJ pesn eq 03 Ss} Huy seu Jo pul» eyA seQeoTpuT Hupiseu prets euL 


B - 44 


yseu eq sse.iduoo 02 3e6.103 ou Op pue SMO1 ssO10e Ssseidm0D Jou og 


-eueTd 4seul eu} p.zeostp 10/pue seuetdatq ppe Aew Aeqy ‘ATzeTTUTS 
-seuetd (2zeqeT) seps0-yHty ey doup 40 seuetTd euTqioo ued ETTZ WATI 
JeTnoyzued e uy seedde ueqy soue[datq szemey expnbe.i QeqQ sue.foid szopeoy 


*UOTSSOIGIOD ejep SUA UO 

puedsp SUIPTA pe1o7S ATeuR pue uNZT10HTe peTzyoeds ey; 03 Surpsococe 

pesseiduo> st mo1 AleAe ‘OSTMJEURO “epTM Spscom (9T/m) Hut Ttep ATQOEexe 
ere SMO Y [Te ‘SUONGID ST UOCTSSeidmOo piety szepeeydeyAtT euy ZI 

-( ysewseq = Hbuypysew JT) seu eyQ wWo4sz Mor oUO Aq POMOTTOJ T-SoueTqu 


SUTT UeOS YOeY “SCUTT UOS JO UOTIEUSZEOUOS E ST WUSQUOS S,X00d SUL 


‘Butddr[o 10 (4s0oTopqueszedsues3 QTM) Suttttz Aq eztTs 

Jeqjoue oj efeuy et 3.10enu0o Aew uresHoid e ‘300d S,WATI ue Buypeer eT TUM 
‘AsuTz aeedde ysnm »unNYyO GHW SU} OS ‘>TUNYS ZG0g SU JeudieqUT 03 

pepecou ST UCT ReUWLiojuT STU], ‘pesn uQT4oh Te UOCTSSSAGUOS SYR SO IeOTPUT 
7euy PISTJ uocTsseiduoS eq} pue euetd seul e ST o1e4 JF SeWeOTPUT 

3euQ pIeTs buy seu eyy spToy osTe AI “seueTquU pue ‘Y ‘A SUOTSUSUITp 
S,Jeqsei ey setjyoods ‘>xpmyo Aqi]edoid GHNd © UT ‘sopeoHdeyRtd SUL 


-moi Aq poaeoTstequy ‘seu Teuotydo eqQ pue seueTdaTq TTe 
Sploy yuNGoO Guo STUL “>UNUO ,,xCOd, © UF PeEtoAS SF AEASeA GOANOS SU], 


AqOd 

*“seueTdatq eu TTe 02 Huysseooe-wopue.r 

QnouRTA STTJ eq woszz ATQOe1TP sMo1 Hutddems Aq ehewy Hyq e [TO10s oF 
STqTssod 37 seyew oste 31 ‘wydep 10 ezys ebeuy eyy ysnfpe 02 37 Suppeos 
SITUM Sep SYA Wiojsuesq OF JOTSeS YOM QT Sere AI “OUTT ues ORO 


02 QueuTzed UCTIEMOJUT SYR TIE SOZFIESOCT STUL * (MOTSq GES) ETTJ 
SU} UT peAeeT1eqQUT ee yseUul pue seueTdQTq QUeUezZTp Et JO SMO1 SU] 


‘stextd queredsues3 oqeubtTsep 3Fq 0 © ’SPAOM EURO UT ,,“euoTe TexTd 
UOTIEUTASEP STYR SAKST,, SURO QTq Seu Q e pUe ,,‘UCTIeEUTASep ENR 02 TexTd 
Buypuodse.zs02 eyQ Adoo,, sueeul xseu ou} UT 3TQ T W “ebeuy seq QoUe OU YF 
BHuyqAuyed ueym ebeuy ey Jo ued ,,ANo Ano, 02 MOY STIER AI = ~eueTATq 

e se (y ’m) OZTS cues OQ eVEp JO ,oueTd, TeucTydo Ue ST ,1SeUL, Vv 


*3s1t3 peXetTdstp st e7Aq yore jo 

3Tq QUeOTJTUBTS Ysow eyW pue ‘1zepso ut peXeTdstp eze sezAq eATSSOOONS 
‘mot yore uTUaTM *° (Azepunog p.0m Asutjy euQ ATT4esseseu Jou) Arepunog 
(e3Aq-z) pom e 03 Ano pepped jnq ‘out, ueos eUO 40J SITq s,ouetd 

QUO ST MOL W “OUeTAATQ yore WosjZ ,MO1,, GUO JO SpeUl ST SUTT UeOS Y 


“SOXEPUT AOTOO ESET JO ITQ AEP4s0-MOT EQ ST ‘0 SueTd ‘oueTATq 

4SATJ SUL ‘TexTd ZENA 40x eNTeA 4OTOO e seATH yeqQ dew s0TCO eR OUT 
xeputT ue dn exyeu ‘1z6e1qe6o03 uexye} ‘oueTd yoee wWorzy sqTq Sutpuodse.z109 eU], 
-Axowsul uy seuetTdatq se peztuebi0 AT TeoTdAR Sf szeqSe1 SUT, “ABUAOS QJOT 
seddn sua st (0’0) e1z0uM ‘stextd zo sqtun ut sf weqshs Se ZeUTpP.1000 

SU, “SCUTT UeOoS JO SuuM[OCO uMop (xX HbuyseesoUT) wWoI}0q 03 doQj USETA 

‘seuT[ ueos ssoioe (x Butseesout) AUHT4 02 AJeT Speeooud ueos s8jseYy 


,’AZTpow pue poy, pue ,preTzAetd Tenp, se yons sepou 

Xetdstp ebjyuy Aytoeds noX set sTul ,,‘epoul quodmeta, ONOT & Sei103s 
QI ‘seqnduoo ebyuy e1opommog eqA 403 ATTeoTzTOeds ST #UNYO ,OWWD, WV 
SMWO 


*pe10oubyt oq 
PTNom 9 seqsTbe1 410TOS gy pue ‘pesn sequmu e3Tuds ereMpsey eyy 


UT € pue ‘Zz ‘T sueqsTGe1 4OTOD *9 = AOTOD AUeredsuUeIR SAY PTNom ejT.ds 
efjuy euetd-omj e ‘etdiexe u0q ‘dn- jes szeyj0 ATduy Aew ejyads e Suyzee1 


*qsowai0j ST 3eq3 eqTids e Suyjouep ‘Aseubyy eq} ST 09 SoUBpeceig 


/+ yerhyq eG ST 0 ‘eouspeced eaTWeTOX ;/ 
‘eouepecei1gertids quomn zepedAy 


. syuNgo Teds Sq} Spy_suy 
SREP Souspeceid eqTuds eq} STN-LIEAO 4O ESN OF pue ‘Se TqTSsod jZF 


‘eqyads e 37 oxeu ATTenQoe 03 wesboud sepeer eg} 03 dn ST QI “eRTads e se 


popuequy sf eGeuy spy yey SeWeoTpuT »uNYO , Lads, Ue Jo eousseid eyL 
Lads 
* (deep 


seuetd seuetgu) deuntq eo.mos eyy ut ou (deep seuetd qqdep) deuntq 
UuOTAeUT_ASEP eu UT sTexTd Aq pouLioj ere SuSquMU 4OTOO eq sASquEUEYy 


‘[ -rseue[Tquz = 4xseweuetTd = »oTgeuetd 


03 queTeatnbe st (Aj1edoad Isaq ou qqTM) eseo 

TeuLiou euy, *,,euoTe eueTdatq sTuW SAeeT, UeS SITq 0, STTUM ‘,eueTdaTq 
STU} 03 O374M, UES SzTq ,T, :eueTdATq UOTeUTAZSep SYA O23 Hut {T4A 

e3e6 yseyeuetd ut sqtq °,eueTdatq STUUR O{UT J3JOQUQeUeTd Worz ATq HuTpucd 
-S@1109 St And, ues SIT 0, “SeueTqU Tenbe prnoys S37tq ,T, JO zequmU 
et Os ,,eueTdaTq sTyR oqUT eUeTdQTq eo.mos Qxeu eYR Ind, USM xAOTGoOUeTd 


B- 45 


"OLTZ AeTnNoTqzed stuA 103 

uestboid AQTTFIAN y»ooupgaaT eyA Aq pequtud eq PTNom AeA SUTTIANO Ee SACS 
uwesHetTp ey} JO WUHT4 SI OF YxeQ SU, ‘soueTdaTq € x sTextd 00z x Ooze 
ebeuyt pesseiduooun ue :eTduexe eTduTs e 4103 wesheTp xoq & ST sus 


weswetqg xog WATI 


*AGOd SQ SET Tpou 

qeqQ GUO ET ST WeWQ ESNed.eq ‘SUNOS JeTQ SUC STW ST XGOd eq} S10jEq 
@oueLIMI0O ASET eYQ ‘eouOo ueYA Sucu sueedde Aquedoid Aue JI ‘sqrtnejep 
s,wesHoid szepees OY WO1Z 10 (SdOYd UWTA ISIT aaI ue eptsuy sueedde wor 
eu3 Jt) seTztedoid pereys Aue wosz ,pezTsequT,, E7e senTeA ATNeJep 
‘HuyTsstu ere sopmyo Aq1edoad xtTs ey yo Aue JI °xqOg eqy pee. Aeuq se 
uoos se doqs A[Tensn susepeet WATI esneceq ‘xUNY 7GOg SUA e410jeq seedde 
sm [Te 4ynq sepio Aue uf eq ATTenQoe Aew syxuMyYo e ep wo pue OD 

Aue pue (QWWD pue ‘LudS ‘ISAC ‘awed ‘dWWD ‘CHWa) sopmyo Ajzedoad ey, 


*ylo],, se umoys st 67Aq 

ped pepescu-seurjewos y ‘suoT TIEede1 S1CUI 10 (9 SUeOU ,,,, pue ‘TeUuCT Ado 
exe [SuUEIT Jerxoe1q erenbs) ,, ‘se jonb,, uF umoys exze sHhuTsQs Te18ITT] 

* (sepeoxydeyata) zoezts Tenbe prnoys +, S,GHNd © ‘eTdurexe 107 °sejzXq ejep 
{peoceiq} HuTMoTTOJ ey JO WUMOS ONOT SZTSIO & SqUEeSeidet ,#,, USO SU 


fo] { ¥QLAGN }4 ,XCO, 
TWO 


{ OJUTSTOAD FH =3: TWO 
{ ebuey }#t OND, =2: OND 
{ ONOT Fit wONWD, =2:2 SWNWD 
{  eouepuece1geqtidg }# ,LudS, =2: Ludas 
{ ebieyjseg }+ ,ISad, =: LSsad 
{ azjutog }+ avin, =": awes 
[fo] {  ,(entq ue0ces6 pox) }+t dvb, =": dvb 
{ Jepeoydepata Ht ,CHWd, =°: GHNd 
{ [xaoa] «Iwo sOND 
[onvo] Cruas]) [isaq] [aves] favwo] cond WTI, } ,NUOd, =": NATI 


‘euO JO qued © 40 STTJ JAI ue eq prnoo 
STUL °xequAs WATI WdOd 2G Jo Axeuums UOCTSseidxe setniei & 5, 01079 


uoTsseidxg setndey WaII 
*spuoceso.oju JO szequmu e sntd 
sSpuoces jo szequmu e& se eze1 HuTTOAD 40Too eq sesseudke wUMI TWO W 


| *qyesoTydes) pue QuTeg exnteg 
GIOq 02 UOTJEULiojuT STQ EReoTUNUMMICD O2 Quen NOA ZF GIO No SQTIA 


prnoo nox ‘eq,ep eToAo u0TOCO SutTsseudxe jo spoyjeu OmMQ eSeyqy JO SUC esn 
Atuo Atqeqoad ptnoa wes6boad yw -xUNq OND & OF seTTuTS AQQeud st sTUL 


/~ Je 0 G10RS ‘esN E.M{QNJ 4A0J peArOSE. ,/ ‘ped qdyomM 
/*= SA0TOO Buybueyo ueeajeq spuccesos.oTU # y/ ‘SpUOSeSOAOTUI ONOT 
/+ S4oTOo Buybueyo ueenjeq spucces # »/ : 
/~ pe_oOSsTes s1zejsthHe1 s0Too seddn pue seo, ,/ ‘pue ‘741eAs ALXAN 
/« (tT ‘Z ‘€) Sparempeq eTOAO = T- » 
"(€ ‘z ‘Tt) spszemioz epoko = T “eTOAD Q,U0p = 0 yf fUCT_Oe.TP CMYOM 
} Qon23s zepedAy 


‘eamjonas osyuyetoAD e suTeqUOS y»UMYO sTUL * (Hutu, pue ehuey Huy ToOAD 
AJOTOD 403) 4130, AUNGo szeTTuTS e sesn uesHoad AyesoTYyde+ S,e10pommD 


LYO 


“ELZ A 09/PBE9T = ORE 

‘puoces/deqs T 403 ‘z76Te@ = eFeA1 ‘pucoes/sdays 0¢ 103 :HuyTeos seeuty Aq 
POUTeRQO Eq USD SOY AEMOTS “HPSE9T = HITZ Se pequeseide. ST puoses ued 
SGeYS 09 JO EEA & QE WoNsS eue syyun euUy, ‘uo st HuyTOAD 40[oo UsqA 
da3S [ITA S10TOO eq YOTYM Ae peeds el SeUTULIEJEp O7e1 PLETJ SUL 


*JjOo suecu 
O410Z *JJO 40 UO ST HuTTOAD AOTOO 1EYROYM SOQEOTPUT SATION PLSTZ SUL 


‘eBuew sty} Aq peqoeTes (s.1equmu 
4Jojoo) sueystThe1 s0jToo jo eGue.1 egy e_eoTpuT YHTY pue MOT SpTeTjs eq] 


febuew { 
/+ peqoeTes s1eqsThe1 s0TOD szeddn pue stemoT »/ ‘Q6TY ‘MOT LAAN 
/» SAOTOO eq eTOAD sueeul O1eZUOU y/ ‘@AFROe COM 
/~ eet ETOKD A0TOO ,/ ‘eqet MOM 
/= O284 9 G1098 ‘eSN GN{NJ 40J pesresei ,/ ‘tTped dyom 
} on14s zopedAQ 


* hOAMNQOTd SACS, OF FF SVjse Aesn OG USGA WATI ue UT 

SUNT OND p Seqtsa ATTeuLIou AuTeg exnteq “yUNYS XdO_ Sy; e10jeq 
aweodde prnoys [Te 3nq “WaTI ue UF SUNY OND Suoul 40 o4ezZ oq ued 
eteqy, ‘buf{toAo a0TOo pue ,ebuet epeys,, © 40oj SueqysTHe1 A0Too jo ebues 
snon6tquos e AjytRuepyT 03 weshord QuTeg exnteq ,S ty OTUO.Q0eTY_ Aq 

pesn ST QI ‘uot ReEuLojuT ,eHues szeqsTHe1r AO[OO,, SuTeWUOS AUNYO ,OMD, W 


ONeD 

‘SUOTSTI[OS eureu JO Souey AUHTIS ewos 

S} e10q} Sues JeYL ‘MY ,Prepueysuou, © ST IT OS ‘WATI Wao Sutsn 
uefSeq suretGoid snofszeaA Jeqze peuTjep sea yuNYO eQep HuyAoT[[oOJ sul 


*seqAq Jo 2zequnU ppo Ue sUTE {UCD 
eq »unqD ZxG0g Aue ped 03 szequewsy ‘soueTdqtq eq op nod se qsnf 


B - 46 


ehTuy-e1opoumon ‘ystTey Ateg 

Squy Ofu01QeTA ‘eATTS ueg 

Syuly OFU01QOeTY_ ’MEYS OASIS 

Sy OfUu01QDeT_ ‘4er71TY Bein 

Sqy OfUOIQCeTY_ ‘uosTic Aries 
ebyuy-S1OpOUMOD “TEOTH “CU 
ebhyuly-Si0poulllog ‘SUING ,~eTPOy, God 


:prlepueqys WATI WUOd STUQ JO UbTSep egy 02 peqnqy.squOD eTdoed HuyMoTToJ eqL 


‘peyjoed ATezesedes ST seqset e JO OUTT UeOS TORS JO MOA Bore Jey} JEQUIBUDY 


‘sun. eReoTTde1 se sqzeede1 eqfq-¢ epooue shemTy 

‘UNA TEJOYTT GUO ORUT Se14Q SYA eb.1eUl OF YSeq ST YF ESeO YOTYA UT ‘uns 
TeszeqTrT e Aq peMo[T{Tos pue pepsceid ueym ydeoxe uni eJeoT[Ge1t © se unt 
qeede1 o7Aq-z © Epooue 02 ASeEq ST AF ’1exOe_ SUTQNOA SSASBAUT SYR UI 


‘ AOOIUNA 
‘ ASWOUNT 
doou <= 8ZT- 
SOUT} T+U- O7Aq Qxeu eT eqeoTTdes <= [ZZT-*°T-] 
AT TeEsz0RFT SeqAq T+u yxou eyQ Adoo <= = [ZT 0] 


Woud U LorTasS 
u ojUT e3Aq eo.mos 4xeU SYA peeYy 
seziq 30 sequmu peatsep ey} peonposd [73UN dOOT 
3: texoOeguH 


3 (xoq~ooj ,yYysoJUToOeEW eu UT SITE@OedUN PETTeS) sexoedun sepooep ey 405 
epoo-opensd Aq peqT4osep 4seq ST TuNye Aq sults HuTpooue-un1 SUL 


Huppooug uny Tunye sg 


‘e7fq ped © ST UNIO dW SW 409se ,,0,, SOUL 


Po ew mem meme meee meets e nee errr errr + 

| a i) ‘0 ‘0 ‘ol 

oo0ve AGOGd’ si 00082 »Aqod, | 
$m wm eee em nme eee ene essseser- + 

| 0 | 

| +------------------------------- + | 

1 i °° £0°0°#9 ‘0 ’o ‘ze 70 ’o ’o | | 

Tt awo li TZ sawp, | | 
| +------------------------------ + | 

i | 0 ‘0 ’€ ‘0 ’0 “002 ‘oze | | 

oz au ‘i ii 02 ,auHWa, | | 
| +------------------------------- + | 

Pom meee mm eee em come este ess esses sen n-= + 

{ sWATI, | 

$m eeww were emo n owes e meee ee se seseren--= + 

WIGI 0L0bZ WOa si! 0L0bZ sWuod, | 


B - 47 


"UOTRIEZTpPrepueAS ISNW/OSI 4103 pesodoid sdnoi6h 
oTydes6H eyeurz9eqTe EY JO EUO ST QI ‘(gq xu) XxX, Ynomgy (ow xeu) dSEN 


ehuei euy uT Sue_OeseyO OTYUdesH pepuejxe jo dnowb euy SFT 1D 0 


‘pesnun ee sueq_OeTeYgo [O1QU0S [D pue seouenbes [o.1qU0S 3eYR0 TIV 
“Hut AAeuioy IXLA 403 pesn st (g6 xey) ISD WAT HuyQ4eys eouenbes 
Jo1quU0o sul, ‘seouenbes To.1QU0D uTbeq eseyA Jo eUlog * 36 xeYy YHnomuy 
0g xey ebues ey ut sueqoeszeyo [01QU00 pepueqxe jo dno1H euy ST TD Oo 


"(az xey) 42, nom, (TZ xey) yi, SzeqoOeEreYyD STGeQuTAd 

IldSW Prepuejs EUW Sue Sei SUL “pesn Jou SF YOTYA ‘AeROeseYO 

SI9Tep eu ST (aL xoy) Taq ‘zeQOereEYO Soeds eu ST (0Z xe) dS ‘aL xq 
ybnozgqy oz xey ebuer ey UT SeqQoereyo OTUdesH Jo dnoswd eyy ST 0D 0 


* JOJRCUTULIO} OUTT e Se peztTuboce.1 
jou st (qo xey) w ‘szeTNoTZUed UI ‘pesn Jou Sue SuE_OeITeYO 0D EVO 
IlW ,°SUFT 3xeu eYQ Jo UOTATSOd TeQUOZT4CY YS1TZ eY 03 06, HbuyuecU 

*JOYEUTULIOR. EUTT SYR ST JT ‘eouenbes To1Quoo e sutheq dsq “JueoTjtubts 
ese (qT xey) OSa pue (yo xey) aT ATUo ‘eseu JO ‘aT xeYy YHnowmR 
(9 xeu) INN eHuer oyA UT SuSQOeEreYO TO.QUOS Jo dnoswH SYA STF 0D © 


‘weq} dps prnoys sureshoid sepees 

qUeLMD *-ISNW/OSI WATM AITTTqQFJedMIOS A0J pue ESN GN_ANJ AoJ peAtESei Sie 
S1e}OeTeYO [O1QUO0D pue seoueNnbes To1QU0D ASOW (‘MOTeq ,,SeoUeNbes 
T0o.13U0D,, 88g) *seouenbes To1}U0o pxzepue IS ISNW/OSI UTbeq S1zejoesreYyO 
TosqU0S SUA Jo AUbTY_ ‘sdnow6 ,,TorquoS, om3 sntd sdnos6 ,ofyde.s6, on3 
OUT PSPTATP ST 39S JeqOeAeYO STU (‘MOTE ETGe Epood sSjSeTeYO 

eu} 88g) ‘QUeUMOOP STUR JO 71eRS EY} Fe peqTo SpszepuejsS ISNV/OSI 

eq; Aq peutzep Jes seq0ereY> 3Tq-8 SGA JO S109 SYR SeSN IXLA Wud 


‘weqy e10ubT TITM (MoTeq ees) sepees ,GuTddraqs, e yonouATe ‘SIyD AO ‘SISIT 
‘sSWUOA aa peyseu utequoo Aeuw IXLa WUOd W ‘Weesqs 3x03 AQde ue sqUeseidet 
SUHD OU UATA IXLA WUOd W ‘teTsTOedS Quoz © ’,,SNOd, SF PeuTsep AOA 

Kj1edoid Huta eu.103 ATuo eu, -szeedde oste Aew sxunyo Ajuedoid Hut {Qeui0g 
“sxUMYO ,SYHD, Weesqs se_OeseYyO SAF UT St IXLA WNOd & JO SQUSQUOS Ute SUL 


“QUeABTOA COSTS ST ZZ0Z PszepueAs OSI *TeOTAUSPT Gie SjUeIMSOp Spiepues 
0M} esey} JO szed QueASTe1 EU, ‘spsepuejs eHue~ ejuy-ejep (ISNV) 
{NATSU SpszepueAs TeUCTIEN UeoTseuTy pue (CSI) UOTIeZTpPsepues A0J 
UOFPEZFULEHAQ TEUOTREUISQUI “6L6T-H9'EX ISNW PUE Z°6ZH9 SIG/OSI : ISNW/OSI 


‘S®TTJ aaI [Te 203 suotqueauoo SutATsepun 
euQ Seqysosep se[Ta eU0g ehuew~ueqU] 103 psepuejs ,SeB Jal WA, ‘dal 


‘sqay OTUOAQOSTY JO yrewepe.g e st [ug] say CfU0.QDeTA 
‘our ‘ebTUY-eXopoumoD Jo xreMEperg e sy [mq] eSyuy 


‘peptTaoid ere soouenbes [0.13uU02 ISNW/OSI JO xequAs eu jo uesbeTp xoORr3Q0081 


e pue ‘uwesbetp xoq e se uMOUS JXLJ STdexe ue ’e1ey pesn Joes se joeseYyo 
ISNW/OSI 374-8 S43 103 STqeR epood e ‘ATTeUTZ °3xeR poeqQemojun uTeTd 


‘syUNYO ,Prepue7s, SYA Ore eSeUT, *,,SNOd, AeTJTOedS QuoZ pue ,SYHD, wee.sjs 
Jeaqoerzeyo sedXk3 »xunuo eyQ SeUTjep UOTSSNOSTp STYyW JO Qu4ed puocces 


“ISNW/OSI 3INSUOD ,,°S808J OTTERT uo UMA, SUeSU EU YOTUA ‘eTduexe 103 
‘sHhuyuecu zTeyy Ajtoeds eX Jou seop queumoop sTuy ‘dnoswh ISD eq :esn 
03 seouenbes [0.1QU0D Jo SSeTS YTUA SeTjyToeds Queumoop STU], *“sxuUNYO 
SUHD UTUATA SeoUeNbes [O.1QUOO peppequie Se Pe10RS GUe SOOT 197Oe1eYD 


“SUOTIeIUEeSeIde 3X6} peqQEULIOJ pue 4xe3 uTeTd GROW EARS 
03 BuTaey QnouqyTA e yep ebueyoxe ueo suresHoid ‘sedAQ wuod Jueumoop 
@imny_nj wosz suotjuod yxeq eq ysnf{ Aoe.14x@ 03 ETQTsSod ST 3F esneoeg 


(,,"@0ueteJe1 ISNW/OSI S43 88S, UT Se ,ISNV/OSIy 

PETITES YQtoyeouey ete sprepuezS OMQ OSeY) “SpszepueIS ISNV/OSI SU3 
WOAJ JSS AeVoOeEIeYO TerQUeO eYyW ASNf SesSN IX ‘“Spzepueq7s ebueyo108qUut 
eqep ISNW pue OSI UATM ETqTZedOD 4xe3 3TqQ-g JO WeerYZS e SUTe UCD 
SUH) Ge ‘“IXLa ue epysuT SxuMYO ,SYHD, SACU 40 GUO UF pEetojS ST 3xO] 


‘sureiH01d 168gR0 QTM SReoOTUNUMIOS 03 
STTZ 3x63 uTeTd eqexredes & O{T4M 02 SAeY OU SeOp s0SSeD0Ad pom e ‘SnUy 
‘SO[TJ ,S4eyRO eYR EAT4M pue peer ueo esodind euo 40J US{QTIA wet6Hoid e 


(-eouesejor JaT SUR 90s) 

‘SOITZ JeuLioy eHhueyoseqUT 40J prepuejs ,SIy OTUCAQOSTA STF ,S8 ddI Wau 
‘uoT_euLIojuT Hut AQeui0z Teuotydo sntd 3xeA Jo wees3s e HutuTeqUOCD 

euo jo qued & 10 S[TJ agar ue eq ueo yoTyM ,SdAQ Wud, AO UOT OSS 
ezep, aaI ue ST IXLA UW ‘IXLa Wad 103 Quewetddns Jaq eq} S} Owe STUL 


Lawad Lawad Lawad Lawad Lawad Lawad 
9°Z 3eAq :snq7e3S 
eHyUy-S10pOUMOD ‘SUM ,ACTPOM,, Gg 
pue squy ofuO.TjSeTY_ ‘uosTwuioy Autor pue MeyS SARIS = : WA 
SB6T ‘ST 2OqUIBAON = : 89& 


‘JTAaes sues 03 pesoddo se jJT4es Sf UOJ poitTsep 
SU JT SOPSOTPUT JT4ASS PISTJ SUL “UIPTA PexTzZ 03 pesoddo se YIPTA 
Teuoyz410doid Ss} UOJ peiTsep eyy JT Se_eotpuT TeuoTjuodoid preys Sul 


‘MOU JOJ e184} 0 G109S pTNoYs sueiGoig ‘°uoTIeZTprepuejs 
@MANJ 10J peAsesoi ST Tped prety eu, * (p40m ATq-9T ued Zz) 
pexoed-e7Aq ete SPST ALAGN SUL ‘UMOYS JeEpso SYR UT pe[}tj ere SpTeTy 


/zeFzToedgquog { 

/+ °UOJ perzsezoad Suyureu Huy2z4s pe_euyputez-TINN © »/ 
‘(Jeureu szeyo 

/+ SK =Z ‘OU=T ‘UMCLDIUN = QO £qUOJ ZTUeS ,/ 
*JFACS ALAGN 

/» SK=Z ‘OU=T ‘UMOIDIUM = 0 2QUOJ TeUOCTIUOdGOUd ,/ 
/Teuoftj1zcdoad grxan 
/~ S184 9 G409S fesSN ENQNJ 4103 peAsesei ,/ ‘Tped ALAN 


"UOT JEZTPAepueAS y 
OMANI AOJ PEATESEL OTe SONTRA JEUNIO “6T YOnomy ,- 
OT 30 saejoureued EATAOETES eEoUSNbES [O1QUOS WIS x 
ue Aq poouetezei1 sequmu pt WUOZ e& ST 6 YHnoW 0 y/ 
“PF SLXaN 
} Qon23s jopedAQ 


°*[T quoj se juoz weqshs Tecot eqq esn Aeu sepeer em 
‘peTyjoeds ueeq jou sey T UOJ JI ‘T Quoj sesn SAemTe seEpeer QxXeQ [eUTUTU 
W ‘UOJ seyQOUe S}OETSS YF TFIUN T QUOZ sSesN 363 SUD ‘3Inejop Ag 


UOTANATASANS WAUOCJ Op ueo uerH0Oud QueTdToe.1 

SUR OS UOJ EQ 4A0J UOCTIdT410Ssep e pue ceureu e qI0q SeATH sETzTOSedS 

quoj eul (‘spszepueqs ISNY Ppue CSI Eq UTUITA peptAcad Jou sft uot ZOUNZ 
STUL) ‘SUNY SYHD Quenbesqns uTYyATA sequmu Aq peousuejei eq ued QT OS 
,2203STHes WUoZ,, peszequmu e OF QuoZJ e suBysse QI ‘MOTeq UOCTWereTOep O 
YQ UT peuTjop se seTJTOodg quo & SpTOY ,SNOd, Aqwedoid Teuotqdo eu 


. * (WYOT AO ISTT HuysopToue ue woiz pezysequyt 
setzedoid Aue jo Quepuedeput jou qhnouyTe) 1z6eqjO yore Jo Quepuedeput 
ere SWOT Quecefpe JeyQ seTztoeds Far esneceq ‘WYO, SU; JO pue eu 


eu 03 sz0n0 Axed syn & EepTsuT seouenbes [o.zju0o Aq Aes shut 3es 

Buty qeu10z Auy °3xe3 S,xuUNYO 20Q3eT SY Jo Huy} QeUL103 eGR s}0ej;Je SoM 
SUH) 0M3 usenjeq Suyszeedde syumnyo Aj1]edoid buy {yQeu103 Aue pue 

‘MUN SYHD eTHutTs e uTyATA ATeVeTGMOD eq ASTM SoUeNbes [O.14QU0D yore 
3euQ Adeoxe pe Jeueqeou0D ATeATIOOJJE ere HUN SYD jO Ss Ue jUCO 

SU ‘ST QeUL ‘UOCTREWIOJUT TeNQxeQA Jo wees eTHuTs e Queseide1 Asyy 
46930603 uerxeL ‘sxuNyS SYHD JO szequmu Aue uftequoo Aew IXLA WuOd W 


° IBVLT 

pezytemmms pue eAoge peqt.tosep se seouenbes [o.QUOD pue eS JE ROeIeYyO Sy 
SOPN[OUT STYL *WUSUMOOP sTUR JO 71eIS SYR Ae peqTo spszepueAs ISNW/OSI 
ey Aq Burptqe szej_OeTey 3Tq-g Jo souenbes e suTejUCS xUNYyS SYHO VW 


Seaver eeoe2n@oGoeean 


*sueiboid sepeet IXTd 

que.rms Aq peddtys eq prnoys pue esn e.ngqnj 410j peArtese1 ere Seduenbes 
eseur * (96 xeu) IS ue Aq peqeutuie? pue ‘sejOeTeEYO TD & 40 (gL xey 
nowy oz xeu) ,., Gonos, gS shuet ey UT ST YOTYM JO ORS ‘SitezOBIEYO 
S10 40 o1ez Aq pemoTtozy ‘(a6 xeu) Odw 410 ‘(46 xeU) Wd ‘(a6 xeu) 

950 ‘(06 xeq) sod WTA Guyz1e3s seouenbes [o.1QU0D eyR ST ,bes-sod,, 


*seoUsIEJeI ISNW/OSI SU} INSUCD ‘Mou 40g * (UOTIEIO4 

pue ‘uoTyTsod ‘yoqtd ‘quptey ‘uewlor ‘SA OF TERT ‘PTOQ °SA uMfpeu 
"SA QUuHTeM QUHTT) eoez szeQOereTO HuTQIes 103 seouenbes beg-Isp jo 
Sesn ey} UTeTGXe [ITM WUCUMOOp UOTIeZTpsepueIs [XII Sangny y :eR70N 


-uoTReEULIosUT Hut {Qew103 sex1oubT yeqQ eUO ‘ST JeUR--sepees IXLA Tewyuyu e Aq 


peddtys eq Aew seouenbes eseuy * (az xey YHnomWQ. oF xeY) ,.,, YOnomw} ,0,, 
efue1 eyy UT 1030e1eGS HuTpntouco e pue (Je xey yHnozy} 07 xeN) yd, 
uno. gs ebue1 ej UT Sae_QOeTeEYO E10Ul 10 O1EZ SEpNToOUT eouenbes ey} 
“Ki peopqoequds * (g6 xey ,,’teonposquy eouenbes [o.1QU0D, eq) ISD WTA 
qu4e3S8 seouenbes [o.1QU00 ,bes-Isp, ° (uoTzeI04 pue UOTATSOd) UOT EULIOZUT 
gnoke,t sdeysed pue (ezts 3xeq pue ‘’eoez edAQ ‘sequmu Aq uot Oe Tes 3U03) 
HuTAAeULIOJ 1EQOe1eYO E1098 03 seoueNnbes [O.1QU0D ,bes-ISo, sesn IXLd 


4 quesqe, ues 07 ,2, SFT seqoereyo e YATA eoUENbes sS{OeTETO-0M} 
uA eceTdet 10 (4e_oeTe 0H HuTpuodse.si0o e se 10}20e1EYO HuTAOTTOJ 


‘suestboid 1zepeet JyLyI quesmo Aq peddtis 

eq PTnoys pue esn e.mynz 103 peAtese.1 ere Seouenbes eseyL * (7, xeY 
Yono.1y o€ xeq) 4., YWnomwy 0, eSuer eyQ ut seQOeseYO e Aq PEAMOTTIOJ 
‘(az xeq ybnomy 0z xeq) S/, Gonomy gs sbuer eyR. UT SuS}OeIeYO S10 
4o o1ez Aq pemottoj ’ (at xeq) oSq Ssouenbes [o.sQU0D ey ST ,bes-9sq,, 


IS v(TO | ya, Wnow; as) (caw | Wa | 950 | Sod) =:: bes-sod 


(ney WOnosmgy 0.) «(y2, Bono ds) ISD =": bes-Iso 
0D €SS =:: EeNeLazTuUs 

0 78S =:: z9eLa3Tus 

(nay GORI 40u) ¥ (4/4 GOnowgy ds) Osa =:: bes-9sa 
(.X, Wonozgy dSgN) =: 19 


(Taq uSnowgy ds) =:: 09 
*MOTOq peume.HeTp pue 
MOTeq peqTsosep ere seouenbes eseyy, ° (,seouenbes edeose, 10) ,Seouenbes 

TO13U0D,, pxepueIS ISNV/OSI uTbeq szeAOeTeYO TOAQUCS eYW Jo QUST” 


seouenbes T[O.QU0D 


B - 49 


-CNa 
GNa 
aNd 
‘Xpoq s,xunyo ey dytxS JSIMYaHLO 
/ ANd 
$quoj STq3 ©SN .NGHL T = PTF S,AetzfToeds Quoz eu aI 
: STQeT sea JEeTj Foedsquoy e OQUT SqQUuSeqQUO0SD S ,2funygo oy peed 
NIOTd *ySNOdy 
‘()Sanppeey :,,SuHD,, 
JO GI S,xUNY eyA FSW 
/Aepeey yuNYO AxXeU SUA peo 
NIOId Od IXLA WOT ©4 UT pees 02 QJoT Hbuyyewos FIIHM 
NIOga 


{°soumyo SyHD A0J IXLA WAOd & peoy} ’ () SUHDPIXLAPeOM TUNGIOOUd 


-CNZ 
CN 


Na 
{@LTS JAI Poulos Teu--10118 ASTMIGHIO 
‘syunyo ,,SNOJ, 403 dOYd S43 pees NIHT 
wiXL3, = SdAaqns s,doud ©43 ANW ISIT © Hutpeos O1,0M JT *,d0Udy 
. ‘ () SUHDPWNOTPeOM : WO, 
‘()sunoplvopeed :, IW, ‘LSI, 
3O GI S,xuNYyo euy gFSvD 
sAspeey UNYO Axeu SUA peo4 
NIOAG Od LWD 40 ISIT S43 UT pees 02 QzZeT Hupyewos AITHM 
NIOgd 
: ()SuHDPLWOPeeY guNagw0ud 
{*SMY SHH’ IXLI TTe 40J IWD AO ISIT & peoy} 


“CNG 
aNd 
Na 
‘Xpoq s,xunyo ey dps ASIMYAHLO 
: () SHHDPWNOTPeON : WHOA, 
‘()SunppLwopeed =, IW. ‘uLSITy 
JO GI S,xuUNYO ey gzSWD 
-Jepeoy HuUNYO AxXeu eu pest 
NIO3d Od WHOA SUF UT pear 02 QJoT HSuTyQeWOs FIIHM ASTI 
() SUHOPIXLIPeCA NAFHL 
wlXLa, = edAyqns s,waod eu3 aI 
NID3a 
{°soumy> SuHO’ IXIA 4A0J WHOA AAI ue peey} ‘ () SuHOPWNOTPeeU TInagwo0ud 
‘OTTS AAI Ue UT WHOA ASATZ Oy 02 pet{dde oq ATexTT 
PINOM STU], “SxUNYO SYD‘ IXLA Tle 420J sueos AT ’ (put suios Jo Queumoop 
e) WuOd & ueATD ‘seddyzaqs TXL_ ue soz weshoud yst-[eoseg e S,a10H 


*[T quoz 40Z UOTIdT4AOSep e pUTJ OF SHUNT 

SNOd’ IXLa pees oste Aeu Ay (*4ej7eT pessnostp sf seuUeoS 4xe3 STUL) 
*syUMUSD SYHD’ IXLA S44 uTUATA sSeouenbes [O17 UCD pue S4e_ZOeAeYO T[O1QUOCD 
tr1e Bburddy3s pue (IXLI WHOA © SpTSUF puNczZ syxuNYS SYHD) SYHD’LXLA 3deoxe 
syunyo [Te Aeao Hutddtys Aq sTyR Op pTNom AI °4xe3 uTeTd jo weerqs 

e O72 UMOp queUuMoOop e HuTddtT4qs 02 squnoue sTUL *Sepou jeeT SUA 4OZ 

IXIA SWAOdT Ssesn 3eq3 WHO QUSuMSoOp e UF UOTJeEULIOJUT Teanjonays pue 
HuTAWeuLioJ [Te e10cuHT pue Axe} eyQ peor ueo wWeiHoud uepeer IXIA uy 


WaddIaLs IXLd 


*squfodtosep 02T ST 

squtod zt ‘etdirexe 103--ATTsee pepooue eq oF sqtun ofydeswbodAW ‘y's'n 
HuyASTXS ey} MOTTE squTodtToep ‘sotu eq AUHTU pxzepuejs OT AQeUl © OT TUM 
-@ (Wnd) epoW! 3TUN HuyUOCTATSOg OSI/ISNW ST STUL ° (YouT/squTodToep 
0ZL) squTodtoep ut e1e seouenbes [o1}QU0D pue seTqiedoiud Huta yeuo0j 
IXLd UF pesn syqun ozyTs pue uoTyTSod ‘peTjzToeds esTMieyjO SseTUN 


S}Tun HuyuoT3{Tsog 


‘eTdauexe suo eq 4UpTU 

UOTAEUSTAO AXE], *SQUEUMOOpP peMQ°oNAzAs UF HuTAQeuios ,pejTssyuT,, 103 
pue seouenbes [0.1qQU0D ISNV/OSI PzepueIS UF pepooue Jou Hut AeUuUL10jJ 
queseidet 03 pesn eq TIT Ay, ‘uoTIeEULOJUT Huy AQeui0oy [eucTyTppe 
©103S 03 eung{nz euQ UF peuTjep eq Aeuw sopmyo Aj1edoud Teuot do moy 


SeTquedoig sanqng 


B - 50: 


RRS 
q | F] S| Fz 
eo | Oe) 
zi Gi] % = 


te 
AX 
+, 





saath 8 


€ZTGSoegYvY &é-e@Lseagcrerit a 


(Sip vey) sige perusic I 


> wim RUS ORM AS Cy ed hy 








STTeL Spon t07OeAeUD GLET-F9°EX ISNW PUES 7°67H9 SIG/OSI 


‘aa pue ‘od ‘ad ‘od ‘sw 

xO :sqQuozy STQeTTeAe JO SUCTIERTWTT JO esnesed MOTeq SeTqey Sy UF AUeTA 
AJOT Sze sus7_OEIeEY [5H exer eaTZ HuyTMoT{os eyy (°09 dnosH ofydesb 

eq 03 sHucteq 37 YyBnoyATe zSeROerTeEYO ToOrQUOD e ST Taq) “Ste OeseYyo 
[o.qQuoo sejouep Huppeys AeszH AuHTT “eTqe2 ST} UT SeTque Aerb yep 

se UMOUS Ge pue Spuepue_As SYR UT poUTyep jou Sue S7eEVOeIEYO [5D OAL 
*IXTd UF pesn St 

Spyepueqxs ESoq, JO 3S AeRQOeIeYO 100 STR Ajtuo °spszepueqs Wes s0j}0e1eYO 
3TG-8 6LET-9°EX ISNW PUE 7Z°67H9 SIG/OSI SU? 09 Spuocdsei10> ETqel STUL 


-‘dno15 © ut peqyseu jou e1em AoqQ JT se dno.H Jeqy epTsuyT syfuNyS ey TTe 
BHuTpee.r 02 squnoure sTyy, ‘Huypees senufquoo ysnf 37 IXLA WuOT UeUA szeTRO 
Jepeey dno.6 e HuTpees seqjy “ST{QNS ST UOT{Ae{AUeUSTGNT STUL :ORON, 


“Na 
CNA 
Na 
‘Apoq S,xunyo eq3 dps ASIMYAHLO 
{,°MOTeq UoTQeUeTdXS GOS :FLON} ‘Sia 
() SUHEDPIXLAPeCU NHL yIXLa, = edAyqns s,wiod STU aI : wWeOdy 
{,°MOTOq UCTZeEUeTAXS SEG :AION} ?24 IWOn ‘udSITy 
3O GI S,xuNy Su FSW 
‘ar edAqqns sq} pee. NOHL 
(IWD 40 ‘dOd ‘WHOA ‘ISIT) ~sunyo dno e s,37 aI 
: AOpeey qungo jyxou eu peor 
NIO3a Od WNOd SUQ UT pees 02 QZeT HuTyQewWos FITHM ASTA 
() SHHOPIXLAPeCM NFHL 
wlXLd, = edAqqns s,waod queumoop eq} aI 
NISad 
‘ ()sumppnoauecs munaso0ud 
{*soungo SYHD’IXLA A403 WHO aAI ue Jo ueos deeyp} 


‘queumoop eq, JO 3xe3 UTeTd eq} 03 Ae ATdeeyo 02 seoey pue sUoJ TTe 
se1oubT AeyR yORY © ST AF ‘SPAOM ASYRO UIT *HOeAS e WNoyATA SIW pue 
'SISIT ‘SWOT POYSCU SRF pue PFYOA JuSUMOOp e& peer OF YeUIOJ FAI SUA 
jo sqOezJ UTeZIEO Jo eHequeape sere? QI ‘Hupjyeusoy se [TEM Se Ss jUoZ 

GBuysoubyt ere noX YOTYM UT SUCTZeENZTS 4A0J SYHOPLVOPeSN Pue SHHDpWHOAPeSCH 
SEUTANOA EAOgeE ET} JO UOTSIOA pezTuTydo ue ST wetHoid HuyMoT[OJ eU] 


aNd 
‘uee.g4s yndut eqy CQUT »xOeEq O szeqOereyO Ind NAHT 
3°S3 NI ION © aI 
730S4 NI ION © ‘IILNN 
Ae{oeteyo AxXeu Sty peel =: Oo Lvadad 
NIOgd 
SYWHD :O UWA 
£ (3093. ‘3eS.1) ToxquOpdTAs munawo0Ud 
{° 3053 eS 4} UT seQoDeeYO e Aq POMOTTOJ ESA FES OY} UT SAS}OEAeYDS JO 
zequmu Aue -e°F ’(30S3) (3°54) yeutoz eGR JO SoUeNbes [oxQUOD e dpis} 


-CNd 
(ns) ‘L,x,**asan] + £ 1) toxuoodpis Sod 
: Xa’ + Laws tt 8 ToazAQuU [OdW “Wd ‘OSO ‘Sod 
(Lis OJ Geis 1J) Toaquogdtys Iso 
{°€9 40 75 03 33TUS egy HuTsouby ’ATIOeATP 
Je oOeTeyo 05 HuyMOTIOZ eqQ eTpuey Asnc} { sESs ’zZSS 
‘geqoesreyo ey} qndqno :[,x,°°dSan] NI ‘[,..°°, .J NI 
S(Lyws 400d “Cs/e°% 4 1d) TOMQUODdPIS :OSz 
‘OUTFIT 3ndgqno meu e ZeAS «3 FT 
gO JteQOeIeYO YxeU EGR peel FSv 
Od UNG SyHD CUA UF peel of QJeT Hufy;ewos FTIHM 
NIOdd 
‘()SuHopeey aunas0ud 
{sey To.QUOS pesnun pue seouenbes To.QUCo [Te dPis ‘SUH’ IXLA ue peoy} 


eHTuy-e1cpommog ‘ysTeM Aiteg 

Squy OTUOCARQOSTY_ ’MeUS SASS 

Syy OTuCAQOeT_ ‘4e7xTY 6eap 

Sy OTUOIQOeT_ ‘uosTsu0m Asser 
ebTuy-S10poumloD ‘TeOTW “CU 
eHTuly-S10poumoD ‘SUING yHETFPOM,, Gog 


spaepuejsS ga STGA JO ubTsep ey 02 peqnqy.sqUOD eTdoed GuyMoT TO SUL 


S@eeree2oe2e2@Qoe2e2eeoaeonoe=e 


*pozTpsepueqs euioceq ¢5 pue 75 sdno.w sz8ejOe1eYO 
oTgdesS eyy UeYM pesn eq Aeul Ess puke ZSS SIJTUS JOS AEOEIEYO OM] UL 


* saouenbes 
To.zqQU0o beg-Iso eyy jo Huyuecu ey 103 sp.zepuejs ISNW/OSI S84} FTNSUCD 


‘we GTNS prnoys suresHoid sepee1 pue seouenbes 

PEULIOJ [EU UO PEAIOSO SRe1EUSH Jou pTNoYsS surewHoud s8qT4M *1EQOe1eYO 

TD AO ‘TD ‘0D e Aq peMo[IOJ ISD ‘OTdexe u0j--pouicojTeu AT TeoT_OeQuAs Sue 
Seouenbes 46}0eIeYO UTeZIED “SprepueAs ISNW/OSI UGTA AITITQTZEdUIOD 403 
pue eSn SIMQNJ AO0J poAresei Ore SUSUVO SY, ‘UOoTIeEMIOJUT HuT{AzeULIOZ 
Jeqoe1eyo IXLa 403 pesn st bes-Igp ATuo ‘seouenbes [o1QUOS SNOTAeA eI JO 


paeostp | 
_ TO | oer 
€----+- IS <ntret-e nnn een ee-- <+-- OdW 4O’Wd’OSO’SOd <---------- 
besg-soa_ | 
7 é nan ds “ | 
€--- ~ NM OD <--+---------------- Kt--- [SD <en- enn n enn ne ----- 
bes-Iso | 
(aeqoesteyo €9 © Seonpoid) <--- 09 <---- €SS <------------------- + 
€) 02 3zTys | 
(aeqoeseyo 75 © seonpoid) <--- 09 <---- Z@SS <------------------- + 
7) 02: aTUs | 
+<£-------- TD <---+ { 
| | l 
Ran nnn nn nnn nnn nnn neem nn n-- <€-t+-- « NW dS <---t------ o-oo one + 
eTqequyad | 
' > / nA dS a | 
RK--- wo NAW 0 <n tenn nnn nen nnn nn- Ktene OSE <r rec esereneencceccs + 
basg-osa_ | 
Ra mmm mmm n ewes es cence re ecesooococeeerce TT <2eee mses enennneneee te~-e- 


AOZEUTULIO} SUTT 


*syUNUD SYED LXLA UT pesn se seouenbes 
To.1QUOD pue Sie_OeTeEYO ISNV/OSI SYR JO WesbeTp »xOerWEOCe & ST STUL 


SAONINGAS IOMLNOO ISNW/OSI 


-eqzhq ped © ST YUNYO qYWD SUA 40738 0, SUL 


mn rn ew em een mete eee=t 
| +~----~~ 2 ee we + | 
| ] ‘o ’o ‘ol | 
000%z ACCA’ i | 000%Z ,xqgod,! | 
| 4------------ 2-2 -n--e --- -- - + | 
[pawn nnn nnn nnn oo nt | 
| | 0'0’'b9 ‘0 ’0 ‘ze 20 ’o ‘ol I 
TZ dv’ | | Tz »dvWD, | | 
ewe we woewww wm w www we mw wen wm ww oe 
{ | 0 ’O ’€ ‘0 “0 “o0z ’oze I | 
oz CHW’ | 02 .cuwa, | | 
| pn nn nnn nn ne | 
$m me wm meme wm meme eww men meme ewe een eo H=+ 
{ WTI, | 
wr nn re ewe nce nn ee = + 
WHII OL0vZ Wad { OL0bZ «WaOT, | 
$m we em mm me mmm ene ewe ee mw meee ome oeocoe + 


4, UeUOY,, peweu QUoJ JTAes TeuoTZodoid e UT USIAT4A ,’UBASS pue S1ODS INOJ 
 pedumf xOj UMOIQ HOTNb eu, -oeTduexe erduTs e 40j wesHeTp xoq e ST ele 


B - 52 


2SUOFIOUNJ “MOJ GANOSS SHPeAL °“SYUCAD JO WeerzjysS AESUTI & ST 
yoesy yoeqg °,,Spoe21Q, Tetreszed oquyz pedno.6 ee e100S SNNS e UT SQUeAe SUL 


* (NND) UOCTIEION OTSNW uUCUMIOD UT AeTdsTp 03 Asee AeA OSTe 
St 3] ‘QO0edM0D AOA ST STU], “UOTZeANp QUeAD Ue EpooUS OF SITQ JO TNzpuey 
e ATuo speou snWS OS ‘Treus AJOA ST SUCTIE-Mp TeOTSSeTO [NjJesn jo AES SUL 


‘UOT_IeINp AUSAS 
Tensnun ue WATA ,,2UCAS SR0U,, & PT TN 03 weUAeH03 sejoUu eT} ued FI (-230 
*Qse1 uezrenb peqjop ‘’ejou STOUA) TeoTsse[o ee ‘E1OJOISY. ‘SUOTIENp AUeAS 
S}] ‘seoueui0jzed wi0j-s013 Jou ‘Se100S ,TeOTSSe[O,, 40z pozeeb st SNWS 


SuoT{Qeung QUeAZ [eOTsse[D 


-Aetep queae ue st Aq1edo1d ATuo sqy *‘AUeAe TInu jo 

WOos © SF ,3Se1, YW, SiquTy,, 40 ,QueumMaqsuT,, ue ‘eqou eA 40J eRep JOEATIP 
punos sjoeTes 30efqo eiquTy eul *QUeASe QxeU EUW BHUTZIeAS S10JEq ATeA 02 
ej0u sTyuQ BSuTz4zeAs 4ueqjge HuoT Moy sTTeq AeTep jueae euy, “ySeT pTnous e jou 
euq Suolt sou ASTNPSyS SUR STIS} UoTIeMp WUEAS SU], *q0efqo exuquyy e pue 
‘Xejep queae ue ‘uoTReInp AUeAS Ue EpntToUuT seTajuedoid sqz ‘AUeAe peTNpSUDS 
JO puyy Guo ST ,,O70U TeotTsmm,, wy (‘eoue1tezer gsss etQ ees) "300f old 
stseuquds punos penjoni3g eu wo1zy ASoTouTULIER GUUS MO1I0Q OM ‘ASAT 


“SNWS 103 seoToyS ubTsep pue 
TeteueH uy uoTIeAQUeSe1de1 G100S UO UOCTREULIOjUT puno.H7oOeq SUS ST ee 


“OTSNW 2eQNdIIOD JO suOCTAeEpUNOo| 
uy 0efo1g syseqquAg punog pe.mjoni4g UO SeTOTIAe SNoT4eA EEG :dSSS 


‘our ‘seqnduon etddy jo yreweperg e st [un] eQTMoeEW 


"€86T ‘UOTZeTOOSSY ICIW 
TeuofReuzequyl ‘O°T uoT_eoTJToeds eoejszequl Tey;HTq Jueumaqysul TeOTSMW : ICIN 


*Squy OTUOAQOeTY_ Jo »xrewepe.rq e st [wy] sqay OFU0QOeTA 
‘squoumsjsuy peTdues 10j Jeuioj eqep e SUCIMOOP SOTO, peTdies 3Tq-8 JAI yXASCy 


“SIT ddI ITS 1A0J SuOTIUeAUOCD 
SbuyAT2zepun egy seqy2osep seTTyz yeuwiog ehueyo.szequ] 4103 prepuejs 4S Jal Wau 


. ‘peppe ueeq eaey sedA3 xunyo 3x89 Mex e pue sedéAQ 
QUBAJS Teteass ‘osTy °‘edAQ »uNID ,TSNI, ©} Wioj 03 pestTae. sem edAQ uN 


wISNI, SQL ‘SUOTSIBA 3341p EY GOUTS pesTAe1 Useq Sey prepuejS sTYyL :ojepdy 


‘wetbeTp xoq 

e[dmexe ue pue Areumms eouetejye1-7OTNb e st e200 ‘Atveuta °282eT peppe eq 
ued specu eiN{NnJ 10J SUNY pez;Tetoeds ‘sony ,pszepuejys, ere eseuy, 

ee e7eATAd e103S 03 suesHoid szeTNOTZ4ed 103 sxuNYyo sulOS SeUTJEp 


wu 3CHS, tepeey e10os Aj1edo.1d aE ou Butuyjop Aq sjueucdulod snWs eUuQ 
[jTe,ep pue uoTWeEuLojuT puno.wHryoeq Quejioduy eATH suot{oes OmQ AxXEU SU] 


(°2693.18AU0D 3S) W013 /07 SNWS © Sq PTNOA e20UL “eqQep soueuI0j.1ed pue 
eqep TeucT Ae jou Aouez epooue PT[NOM wWSd WOT °,wWOSD, FeULloj G109s JII 
esn-Te1eueb e ubTSep O02 S {TI P,OmM) ‘“Sesn uTeIIeo 103 eQeTudoidde e.0U 

eq Aeul SQeEULIOJ ASIAO *YeULIOJ O1OOS [OTS [Te-puS ue AOU ST SNWS 


“STQTSUSAXS ST SNWS ‘SPEULIOJ JzI TIP SATT 

‘exeMp.rey punos pue ‘ereMpizey uoTIe{AndMoS ‘soTyudesh AertdstTp ‘eoejyuequTt szesn 

‘suoTzestedo BuTytpe ‘A1oweuw Sup 410M uF suoTWZeqUeseidet S100S JO JUepUedepUuT 

AToAe GMOS ST AI “YeW10j ,OATWOIUe,, AO Pelt & ST SNWS ‘“SPeEULIOJ JAI [Te OAT 


*sseTesn 
eunceq ATTensn eyed STA JO SqUEQUOS SYA ‘sSUOTI_eMHTyuOS SxeMprey 10 
sueiH01d ueen}eq STTJ SNNS e eAcU NOA ue ‘QUeTUeAUOD ASA ST elep 
qUSUMIQSUT peppequie eyy ‘jUeUUOATAUS SUO UT SKeQS ETTJ SNWS e se Huot 

Sy ‘eyoeo e ysnf St sTuR 4nq ‘ejep QueUMA4sUT jJUSpUEedep-4eATAp pue 
-OOTASP UTeQUCD UeS B.100S SUT, ‘SejOU SYA WioCzj4ued 02 pesn ST e1eMQjos 
JOATAp pue SOTASP AndQno wSeABIeYM JO QuepUedepUT ST @e.100S eu 4Nq 

‘sejou yorum AeTd 03 pesoddns ere ,sjucumsqsuT,, yoTyM Aes ued G100S SNWS VW 


*Ssieouenbes pue SSP10001 IGIW pe UeT40- ~sourmiog ted 

Aq pepeou (‘070 ‘spueq yoRtd) ejep snonuTjuUOo pue (°93e ‘sejoUu 
BHutddetsz0ea0) Huy A TeseueH e1cu Sy AO S10RTpe e100s TeoTYdes6 Aq 
pepeeu uot jeUuLioyuT TeuoTAQe jou Aouez 410J SUOTSTAOAd ou sey Ft OS ‘eTduTSs 
ATTeAN_ONAAS @q OSTeS PTNoys eui0z SNWS SUL °(‘ORe ’SQSe1 410e7.1eNb 
peqR0p ‘sejoUu ZTeY) UOTIEION OTSNW UCUMIOD Jo Huypooue euyy QoedwIoS SYR 
Sesn SNWS WHOA OS *xOeqAeTd pue ut-peei Asee 103 peseeh eq prnoys 
QeULIoJ Su *‘sue.zH01d eureH 103 shHuos sewer Suy10js pue sueshboid usenjeq 
SO100S pezTWTT HuyAocu exTT sesn 40j Feus0z ejep TeoTRoeid e ST SNWS 


[-yeui0; eTTa eHueqoszequ] Szty OfUu010eTA 
uS8 JaAI Wa, 80S] *euo zo pied © 40 ETT gal ue eq ued SNWS WAOA se 


peqdopy :snje37g 
Sy OTUOIQCST, ‘uostTs.s0y Arse sWO1g 
986T ‘S Axeniqeq  :0e3eq 


G100G [TeOTSNW STGITS Jar ,SNWS, 


B - 53 


‘mojTeq peumesHetp st sTUL * (,,109STHe1 Quoj,, & 

ybno.rwy AUOJ B O02 SoUeTEJe.1 ©) sEqUMU AUOJ OTJTOedS e 02 EQOeIeYO 3x63 
e Huytaqes 40 (,,209STHe1 40TOo,, © YHNo.WA ENTEA JOTOO & OF GoUSJEzZe &) 
AoquMU JOTOO ot3 Toeds e 0O2 textd s,oHewy szeyses e Hut3A{eS SHTT SF STUL 
*Aerzre STU OUT sequmMu xepuT ue kiduts ST yotun ,,’Huy3 es AucUM.QSUT 


que.tmd,, © sey 90e1Q Yoeg ‘sueqsTbe1 Queumaqsuy jo Keate ue sey G100S Toe, 


‘eqEp AucUMAASUT OTJTOedS eq OF 
squrod um ut qoTYA seqsThexr Quoum.qsuT ye S}OeTeS HOeE1W WOR *,,1teqSTHor 
QuUcUMAYSUT,, UE ETA ST AUCUMAQSUT Ue OF HOeAQ SMWS © Wosj Qoussejou Yorg 


-eureu Aq QouesEjor 
QUSUMAQSUT 03 Oe [Tey pTnous uwesH0o1d ueketd eqQ ’seseo yons uy ‘SexzeMpsey 


qeseid pue sequmu [eUuUeqO IGIWN OTJTOedS © 40zJ Hse OSTe Ueo S10DS SNWS VW 


(-moTeq squcumsqsufT HuTZeoCT uo e109) ‘“seoTAep yndyQno 

ST 103 eyep queumaysuT eTqeqTns puTZ 03 weiboid sz0eXfeTd ey} 02 dn ST AI 

uw STTOQ Jernqny,, eoueysut 4103 ‘Queumsqsuyt ey seureu ATduyTSs e100S eYL 

eureu Kq. ArTeuws0ou SF eyep QucuMMsuT Ten}oe 02 E100S SWS ES Wosy ouetEejor VY 
*soquMU yeseid pue [euueqO qin Aq so cureu Aq eq ued EoUBIEJo1 QUcUM.QSUI 


,oueTd, & putz 03 wes6oid xpeqheTd ey, AeT On ,,oueTd, e squeM 
©1008 U2 JI °@100S ENQ UT UuoTIe1QSEeTOU0 euOS and" 03 Quem qsn{ eM 


‘szeqeuesed JOXT[TOso pue sorces UWLIOJOACM 


‘quewuo1TAue »yoeqheTd eqj uo spuedep esn of eAep qUCUMAQSUT TenjoOe SUL 


‘squcUM.QSUT S,e100S eyy eueu Asyy, -esodind eures oy 403 

YUNG ISNI SeSn SMWS ,,°30efqo erquTR,, 02 sueqUTOd eA TTe ploy 03 eTqez 

joquAs e sesn gsss “UOT JeULIOJUT cures ST JO UCTSIGA pepooue uni e Asn 

SF AI *0e1Q Youre soz ,6uyt3{3{eS QucUMQSUT QUeLMDd, e se Site qUTOd sserqy 
Sei03S SANS WOU °©30U AeTA 103 (eep JeATIP puNos ey) ,IUEUMZQSUT,, 

eM setiddns wo ya ,’30efqo euquizy,, © 02 squTod Quers ejou wre ‘gSsss UI 


‘uofAemp »oeqhetd zo pue qQbuet eHe109s jo yIOG en14 
ST STUL ‘suQbueT QUere3zTp ervey Aeu G100S e UT SxOe1Q AUBNEJJTP SUL 


*sueqj0 Aue 

e1oubT pue ses. N ASJTJ EUW peer prnoys sypesqy TeTTesed N 03 dn 

@Tpueyq ueo AeuQ uesb01ud soketd Ww "ISATZ yoe1Q Queqiody Asow SUA UATM ‘Jep.0 
Aqysoyad oste Ss} STUL °*** ’€ °Z ‘T Aepso TeoTscumu uF szeedde sxuNYyo VL 
SUL ‘“SNWS WAOd S43 JO Suyuusbeq eqy ye yuUNYO YCHS Sq} UF peps09;e1 

ST (soy WAL JO szequmu eyA) sxPes1Q JO YUMOD EYL “HUNYS yWUL e se 
peiojs ST »xOeAQ WOe_ ‘SNWS WHOA © UT SVpesy ccz 03 dn eq ued GUE] 


*Ajeqeredes Mpe13 SIF @109S 02 ESOT 8A 
os ‘Axowsul uteu ut ATezfpAUe ATJ YeWR Seu0cS [TTeus jo yoeqheTd pue 
BHutpeoT eTduts 103 pepueQUuT ST SMWS WHOA JeULIoz Gi00S TeoTSsm SUL 


‘SYOC1Q POACST2EQUT EQ SAeTNdTUEU 02 10M e.1Qxe Oreq Acu 

pue suzequmu 2oe14 SyQ 4103 EHes109S bIQXS Sore AT ANG ‘eoUO Ae ArOUWSU 
ORUT S100S eiTAUS EG} ATZ 3,uUeo NoA ZF ATTeToedse ‘eVep eu Huyyoreses 
ueum sdieu stu "Aqreou pe107s ere squese Aqieou 3eqQ OS sueei]sS S43 
SACSTIOQUT QUOoTU OM ’QEULIOJ G@100S ETqeRTpe ue HuTUbTsep e1emM OM JI 


‘eqnqT 7432 ,,cequmU xOeRIQ,, e ALES 
02 SEY QUSAS TOO ‘SUeOIQS C4} SACSTASQUT OL “WeerQS GUO OUT peAeeT1EQUT 
JO sUeeIYS QUBAS eQetedess SE JEUITS pes0jS Eq PTNOS ejep »AeIR-FIATOW 


SYOCAL, POACSTASAUL °SA peqesedes 


‘pefetd st e100s egy eur A1eAS poztTeTyTures eq 3SMMI 
@ReAS Oe. eUTQUNA EYL °HOe1Q eM HutAeTd ertya so Arcus oQUT xOe.4 
e Huppeot eTtya (pepooep uni) pepuedxe eq ued eje 3s yoes3 HuTuUNY 


*Xem OTqyyediloo-p.remypoeq 
pue -pzeadn ue UT seqgnqysz49e G20U MEU SUTJEp UES Om ,E7eIS Oe1Q 
Hutuuns,, UATM °SeqoU Jo ,,seqnqy.143e,, ezfueHio of Aem TNjesn © osTe 
$,3I ‘Quese ejou Areso ut Huy {Aes Aueumwsuy ue Buyuojas ‘Aes ‘ueyqQ 
a0eduI0D e1ou ATTensn st ezeys Hutuuny ° (seqnqy.sq3e) seTjsedoid ,ecrj,, 
pue ,3U0Z,, Hupuunr WAT Weets{s 4xXeQ . OXFT 3OT © SF STUL -s6UT33S 
Queqm.23Suy JOJ 3XeqU0D & ST 3T Se ysnf ‘030 w/e} STR eqna, ,,‘b/E 
emeubts euy3,, , ‘dd »x1zeu ofureuAp,, Sr1ITT s6uT33e5 @AeYS Ploy 03 eceTd 
e ST »9eQ qoeq “@TEMAJOS PUNOS STANTS 03 GoIeuI pooh e eve Spel, CF 


‘sTeuueYyo Andgqno ofuoydoucu oj eAep oTuoydATod jdepe oj dTeq osTte ueo 


@sn ued OM “GLeEMptey puNOS ETQeTTeAe 02 qo jeu pooh & eue soe sy ¢ 


"37€3S NID © Squeseidet Npery SNWS OM} 40 eUO Os *Jzeqs 10d 
wSOHOCTQ @OTOA,, OMZ JO GUO ATA ‘SOAERS ToeTTered UT e10cos e sezfueb10 
NAD “UCTIEION OTSNW UCUMIOD UT ,Pe1TQ SOTOA, OQ QUeSeIdel met, ‘Z 


‘eBe1098 JO 37q euo ATuo sexzpnbe1 uoT{QouTAsTp Axeutq sTUL 


‘uOT{eMp S,3UeAD EUW Se SUES EUW 40 Q szeNRTe ST AeTep QueAe Wore OS 
°370e1Q WeUQ UT AUEAS SNOoTAeid eu BuyAOTIO3 AT ee TPouT JO UTM 


w ‘Atqoedmoo Azea skeTop quens epooue o2 elTqTssod AT eye mpeszl ‘Tt 


54 


*SQUSASD QUCUMIQSUT- eS 

Te1eueh S10ul ey 07 wey eHueyo esn ey ASOT PTNOYS AI *SzUeAS eSeTR 
ezTubose.1 prnoys sure.boid yons uATM se1cos ebueyoxe 03 squem ey wes5oid 
JojTpe uy ‘SsqUeAS ese ex10ubT ptnoys sureiHoid AsoW *SxOe1Q S,e100S 

SNWS © UT peppeque eq ued sqUeAe Jeseid-IQIW-3eS pue TouueYyo-ICIN-3es 
‘esodind stu 10g ‘uoTsses Bupps0cce1 e UT SpueWOS Jesead pue [euueyO 
IGIN ©YQ eqT4sosuesq Atduts Aew suresHoid usouenbes pue sep100ey IGIN 


‘eureu Aq squoumsqsuy putz ysnf [TTA si1eyO 

SITua ‘sqsenbe1 eseyq s0cu0Y TIT suresHoid sulog ‘sureu QUSGUMAASUT SY QTM 
YUNYS ISNI ue ut szequmu yeseid pue TeuueyS IGIW eg} Suyzyqnd Aq euop st 
STUL *SRUSUMAQSUT IGIW 4AOJ ASe OSTe UeS S100S SNWS YW ‘eAOCde pouoTjueU Sy 


*sHuT33{eS QUeUMAASUT TeTITUT 
eseyy ATduy somyo TSNI SUL *3Oe1Q YORe O02 QueUMAASUT Ue ubfsse [It3s 
QUeAe AUSUMIQSUT-eS SYA QUeweTdUT Jou op yeUuQ suresboud ‘Aen sTyR UI 


"QUA QUSUMIQSUT-3SeS © UQTA uebeq x~OeTQ YORoe JT 

S@ SJ} WI °090 ’T QueUMAQSUT 023 T Oe4L--sAOEquMU yYoOe1R SIF OF POZTTETITUT 
©q PTNoYys sequmu jueUMAASUT S,70e13 YOee “ATTeOTJTOOdS ‘“pezTTeTITUT oq 
qsnul uoTAeULIojuT eVeYAs HuyuuNs ,sxoe213 Auense ‘peXeTd sf e10o0s e GUTZ WR 


shuf3 eg Queumsajsul TeTQTUl 


*SQUSUMIQSUT PepeoT Seu 
USeN{eq WORTMS Ue AT ‘ST ReUL, ‘“HuTAeTd eTTuA suequmu jueuMiqjsuT ebueyo 
ued YOeIA YORS ‘RUSAS O.100S QUCUMIQSUT-JeS E4W SqUcuSTdIT seheTd EW JI 


SqUeAY QUSIMAQSUT OS 


4° ze937Tn5,, Uta Guyqzeys eureu Aue 40 ,,1e}7NH,, Wdsooe pTNoo 

en ‘eu3 HutTTeq ,,°sseq ‘re3TnN5,, puts 3,UPTP OM JF ,,TSSeq ‘aezTNb, Jdeooe 
PINS em ‘eTdurexe u0oq ‘Seo eu ezeuTxoudde spTe Jey uoTQUeAUCD Hutueu e 
Jeptsuoj ~“AoueAsTSsuod soz suo; AUeAUOS HuTureu QueuMAQsUT 4AepTsuoD ‘:enss] 


‘jou ere seureu QUeUMQSUL ‘SQTUTT Q36ueT pue seIOeIEYDO 
SUIEUSTTJ pUe ‘’SET10RO@ITP ‘SOATIP STI SucjoezZ Teuszeqxe Aq peQoejjze 
Gre SCUUSITA ‘“W8Od SUA SRPECOCT OF pesn OT[puey e ST ‘puey seo SYA UO 


PInoys WYOT JUSumAsuT Teoysnm y * (sueEU sEUTeWUOS °SA SUTeU SqUBqUCO 
eq) eureueTTs S37 woz sue S,QUeUMQSUT Ue YSTNbUTASTP 07 [Njered og 


*pesn ejep qUucUM.QSUT 1eT {0 

pue (ssjTu eqoeo e) pep.zeosTp eq 3s sqUcUM.zjsUT peppequia ‘peAcU! ST 6100S 
SUR USM ‘SH1OM USRJO SYOeO OIA OS SQUeMUOATAUS UeaNjeq Se10os SACU ATere4 
em ‘eoTQoeId ul ‘eyes e ysnf S,AT 3ng ‘QueUMAASUT ,,3UHT4, SIA 40J ASTP 
qeqy Guyyoszees pue SEATAp © UT ASTP ,IHT4, Sy resuT 07 4esn eq} HbuTyse 
woi1j we.sHoid euq eaes AsuQ ‘eTqeq—Tns ere sQUcUMAASUT peppequSe SqA USM 


‘@100S © HuTPeCT STTUM SQUeUMIQSUT 4oJ YOees 03 sey ATuO seXeTd © 


‘eseo Aue ul *,,1e37N5 ystueds,, e pufy 3,uUed NoA ZT ,71eR7NH, Jo pus Aue s07 


yorees ‘eTdurexe u0g ‘seyojeu oqempxoudde A1W 03 HO S,3F “Tes soeyojeuw 
euUreu ARUGUMIQSUT ROeXe JI “HY 4O ’E ’zZ ’T deqs seqze HuyTyouees dos 03 0 
ST 3] ‘sseutouey jo soexdep HSuTArzea 09 pequcwetduy eq ueo wYATA0HbTe STULL 


‘eUuO STqeTTeae ue HOTA of 4esn ey 
yse pue cureu jucumsysuT pesttsep eqy AeTdstp ‘sTyes ESTOS TIe JI 'S 


(-A103001Tp »STp e eq ATduTs 
quftu Axeiq7{ euy) °,Asesqy{ QuewumsjsuyT, TeOOT e4R Youwes SsT_Z ‘Fh 


*SqUSUMAQSUF QTNeJep SA AOS ESTA °C 


(,°eqoeo Queums4suT,, 
ue ST STUL) ‘SNWS WYOd S43 UT peppoque spRiOg QueumszqsuT Aue xOouD °Z 


(“sTTez Yorees eT eseo ut doqsyoeq e ere SQUeIMIASUT 

4Inejep eyy ‘suesHoid ueTouez 10g -e10ey do3s suesHoid ertduts 

‘SQUCUMIQSUT 3[Nejep eAeY ASN Wesboid seXeTd AszeAq) *QueUMAQSUT 
3INeJep UT-ALFNq e OF QuTOd 02 szoysTHei QueumAjsUyT OG SZTLIETAFUL *T 


(-suosfzedi0o eureu quepuedeput-eseo esp) 

*JOATIP pue SOTASP Jndqno eTqeTTeae ue YA STGesN sueSU ,STQeWTNs,, “Sueu 
qUuDT4A EU UATA AUeUMAQASUT EeTQeRTNS e 103 HOoCYO ‘se qsTbe1s QueuMAjsuT yore 
Jog °sdeys HuyfAoT[o}; euq suiojued suehetTd ey ‘eqep JjueumaqsuT SReoOT OL, 


"eQeEp AUSUMAQSUT EReSOT 03 SoUTeU ESET sesn UerHord ueXeTd SUL 
"@100S JeY} JOJ ESN 02 SUSUMAQSUT SY} SUTeEU S100S SNWS © UT SUNY ,TSNIy 


-*°| eqon | e70N | SQON | EQON | SION | SION | SION IF saa 3eS| Z sOesL 


$oeeeene-- + 

| 

Poe ede voce hes eet ed ree wobec es o5- se ‘ 

| (eyep umip sseq [TeureqUT) <------------ ywmip sseq,,|<-------- + 

| (ezep seq 7n6 ystueds Teusequy) <------- wrteVTNS ystueds,, | 

| (eqep azeQTn6 Teusz8qUyT) <--------------- ute2TNB,, | <----------- + 
l (eqzep ouetd [euseqUT) <--------------- youeTd,, | <-------- + | 
$a aon nn $$ oe ne o-oo ee ee eee === + | | 
gown n nnn nn nnn en nnn nn enone ee + | 
[ ¢------------- + 


| i 
***| eon | eqon | CQ0N | T QsuT 3eS | OI0N | EION IZ YSUT QES| T ORAL 


B - 55 


(-eacge uoT{0es ,puno.H»peg, eq} UT ,SteqsTbey JueuMIQsUI, G95) “Ee IEP 
QUCUM.QSUT SREOOT 02 WeNR ESN ued AT AO ‘squcuUHTSse QUcUMAQSUT AINejep 
UF-3TTNQ SAF UATA HOTAS pue sxUNYS TSNI e410uHF ueo wesHoid y -e100S sty 
JoJ eSn 02 sqUueUMsUT egy AJTIUSPT SHWS WUOA © UT SUNY ,TSNI, SUL 


TISNI Aqzedoig Teuoyz {do 


‘yunqo q{Huet-ppo Aue szeqze e7hq ped 0 © S103S 03 sequeUDY 


/~ *“SuoTZeQOUUe 9xeQ S,tonqne ‘[]yWHD & SUTeQUCD UNG ONNW +/ 
(,0. ‘sNs ‘sNe ‘.W.)GIOXEN ONNW CI SUTJOPH 


/~+ *A0q3ne 5,e1008 eq] Jo eureu egy ‘[)UWHD © SuUTeQUO> UNTO HINW +/ 
(HH, ‘sL. ‘sy ‘WJ GION HINW AI SUTZePH 


/~= ‘@OFQ0U AuBT1Addo s,wuod eu ‘[]uvHD © SuTeqUOD >xuMID , (5), +/ 
(, a “eds %se °s) ATO TEN qubyskdosa1 GUT JOPH 


/, ‘Smeu S$,01008 TeoTsnm euQ ‘[]YWHD & SUTeUOCS AUNYS AWN +/ 
(,4, ’sW. ‘aWe ‘aN, ) GION ANN CI SUTZOPH 


*SJEQOeTLYO JO FUNC SY} SPIOY PIETJZ SZTH s,#UNyo Sul 

(-yeui0g ETT A eHueqosequ] szswy OfFUC.QOeTY_ SC dal Wa, UT ySeTqsedorg But435 
pue ‘sopmyp SuTa3g ‘sbuT4s, ees) “xUNUO ,IXaL, Prepueqs © exFT 3snf 

‘(aL xeq ’OPTTI) S.u G6nosqy (oz xeq ‘gsS) S$ y ebues eyW UT SuSqoeeYO 
IIDSW 374-306Te Jo Aerize ue sufequoCo sxMYO eseyR Jo YOwe ‘ATTEOTQOE{UAS 


“SAWS SHUOA JO ISIT © 2ea0 peseys eq Qouueo Asq 3 suecu 

QeUL “SNWS dOUd © ut BuoTeq 3,U0p sojumy> ONNYW ‘seT34edoid Jou ee 
A SCOUTS “ATUTT Teotqoeid & ST LOLZE 3Nq ‘SsEROVTEYO T - TEy¥Z 

03 dn que, Aue spjumu> ONNW Seu UES NOX “SNWS WHOA & UT eUO UeTQ S10CU 
and ueo nof os ‘myo Aquedoid © Jou sft »unNYyO ONNW Uy ‘“4ouqne eq Aq 
ut pedA, suoTjejouue 3xe3 Aue sploy ,ONNY, AUN elep TeuoT do SUL 


“SINS SWHOA JO ISI € JOAO woeTQ S.reEYS 02 SNWS dOYd © UT seedde ued setz1Edo1g 
*SIBAOeIEYO 9G7 Uey se V10YS eq prnoys Ajtzedoid y °SjUNOS AWYN 3SET 

emu 3ysne *QuUepuNpe. ST pod e uF Aquedoid (4eqj70 410) aWYN ©UO Ue} S10 
Buyaang ‘sanyo Aquedoid ere ,HINW, pue 4’ (5), 4 ANWN, SedAQ 2unyo ey 
*10yQNe S,e100S eA JO cureU eq SPTOY ,HIN, AQzedoid Teuot ado eu 

4 SueeU ,Szty 

OTUC.SSTA 986T,, Suyupequoo »unyo ,, (5), e ‘etduexe 40g *,, (2), 
s3zeROeTeYO AUOHT.Adoo ey jo uoTIOUNZ eq SoAJes , (0),, GI uN eUZ 
*@100S SYR AOJ GOTROU AUuHT.~Adoo e sprog , (5), Aqaedoad TeuotTjdo euy 
‘yd UF enbny,, 

GOuUeISUT A0J ’@100S TeoTSn eq soueu AWN, AQzedoud TeuoTqdo eql 
*UOFAEULIOJUT 

Axet[joue dee 02 SNWS W8Od & UT pepntouT eq Aew sump 3x63 Te1E8AeS 


ONNW ‘HINw ‘(0) ‘aWWN Sunt Qxey TeucT do 


‘UNG WHS SUA Wot SUMTOA 
pue ode, eu SuyAtddns ‘’(eumtoa ‘odmeq ‘sxjoe.t) e1coskelg euTanos 
JeAT Ip & [Teo pue e100s eq peo, ATTeoTdAQ [ITA wesboud yoeqhetd yw 


‘eqep BuyMoTTOJ eq 4203 euedeid 
Jepeeit ou sdieq uofyzeuiojut sTuy * (moTeq ees) SNWS WHOA SU} UT SxuNyO 
WUL JO szequmu euQ ‘ST AeUR--NpoesQy JO WUMOD SQ SPTOY #YPesALIO PISS SUL 


*(moTeq ‘WAL ees) 

G100S SU ePTsUuT squeAgs »eu-oTweutp Aq peTeoS Sq P[NOS [SAST SUMTOA 
TeqoTh stuy ’ATTenQow 3° ,,TOAQUOD SUMTOA,, teSN B JO UOF{OeATp Spun sdeyied 
‘SUMTOA STUR ASnf{pe Aeu uresboid yoeqhetd eyy ‘entea AZyOoTeA Asy IGIW & 
SITT ST LZT Wonowwy 0 senTeA eum oA jo ebues ey], “e100S OU UF Mpesy 

Tle 40J eum[oa »oeqheTd Teuywou TTe1eAo ue seATH GUMTOA PTSTZ SUL 


*T013U0o sesn sepun sdeysed ‘ode sty} 

asnfpe Aeuw uresboid »xoeqKetd euz *z7TS 03 dn 9 eGues ey ut Fdueq e103s UeS 
PIOTZ ode, sul, ‘eynNuTW zed sejou 4z6e7r1enb jo sequmu eToYM e 366 02 SITq 
ueaes Aq qu6T4 odue 33Tus Atduts Ae ue.zfoid peodue3-es.moo y ° (juTod eyy 
JO 3U6T4 euQ 03) pred TeuoTQOe1z ATqQ-ueASS & pue Zed szehe UT 3Tq-ouUTU fe 
UTA UOTIOeIz AUTOd-pextz e se STU JO yUTUQ AeM nox -eqnuTu sed sejou 
sezzenb 00T squeseidet 00SZT STTUM SseqnuTU gzT sed ej0u szezenb T squeseidei 
I ‘St 3eu} ‘eqnutu sted ej0u z6j1eNnb e Jo SUIEZT UT pesseidxe ST 3 

‘9100S GU} UT SyoetQ [Te 410; odmeq TeuTUOU eqQ SeATh odieQ pets eUL 


‘€"’ aaI STTZ GO.mos eGR UT pue QueUMOOp JAI Ute SYR UT peuTzZeEp OC4oOEU 5 e 
ST GIORN ‘0 03 SPTeTs ,ped, TTe 3S prnoys suresHoig -97Aq 3Tq-IUHTS 
ue oUt pexoed St PISTZ ALAGN W “UMCYS JEPsO ER UT PETTZ Sse SpTOTZ 
‘QueUMSOp STU UT SUCTITUTJEP AONS D EY UL :STTeIep UoTIeIWSMS[ GI] 

‘aepeexeiooss { 

/~ @1008 E43 UT SOeIQ JO QUNOD yf = ‘2708ATLIO ALAN 

/«* L7T Gnorzw;, 9 sumpoa »xoeqKketd TTe108ea0 y/ ‘eUMTOA ALAN 

/» eyNUTW/ej0U JeZTeENb syISZT ‘oduE? »/ soda CeOmMNn 


{a 1, ‘.H, °.S,)CTOXeW AHS AI SuTsepH 
iSs “sNs “We °sS.) ATEN SNNS AI SUTJEp} 
“SANS W8Od © UT SIWUL SQ e10jeq seedde Yom QI ‘e100S EUW AOJ UOTIEULIOJUT 


TeqoTh setztoeds uqHS Uy ‘UOT eEQUSUMOOpP HuTMOTTOJ pue suo; Ieste[Sep 
2 seq} UT peuTjJep se szepeEOEs0SgS Ue SPTOY ,YdHS, Ajszedoid pezpnbe. ey] 


“QTq QUeOTJTUBTS YSeeT OF ATQ QueoTZTUBTS Ysow ‘UMOCYS s.ep10 SYA UT 
S{Tq U OUT pexoed ere SpTeTs ,U:, PeubTsUun <=STTeIep UCT IeQUeUDST dU] 


sa20ns { 
/» ©30U TIEZT = LI » “oQou szequenb = Z 
‘ojou JTeY = T ‘oJOU STOUM = 0 
sUOFSTATP-Z ST UOTZeAMp Sjou oTseq ,/ ‘€: UOTSTATP 
/+ @/e Aq uozyesnp AtdyR nu ‘ejou pez op ,/ ‘T: 30p 
/+ 7IdnQIdes = € , 
‘qetdnqumnb = z ‘3eTdT43 = T ‘euou = 0 y/ ‘%: JeTdnyu 


/+ PAY JO EJOU 3xXeU BYR OF Petz = T x/ ‘T: ynNoeTy 

/~ 930U pepsoyo © = T x/ 'T: psoyo peubysun 

/= 3SC4 = QZT “LZT 02 0 szequmU 8U03 IGIN +/ =) 0 (on) aLXxan 
} On13s yepedéA 


S@AMNJONAYS YUCATS SYA OYUO PTeT4AeAo eunj_oNnAs HuTMoTTOJ 
ey SAC 3SEY CIS YHnosyR SRONASATA GIS SWEATS 3Se4 pue ejou SU], 


SWUSATS Sey pue eR0N 
AEN AIS SuTzepH 


/-~ ‘UOTIEZTprzepueAS SiN{NJ AJ PSAIOSO. , 
:~Sz YOnoszyA dn sented gis Sutuyeuoy ,/ 


/» “WA UT %Aeu-puo ue 40J pevstesei GIS s/ SZ 


/= °“SYUEATS OTSNW JueSUT 410J peAteser 6ST YOnoWA FHT SonTeA CIS »/ 


/» (saeouenbes) szequmu jeseid IqGIW 36S s/ PET WSCA ICIW CIS SUTJEPH 

/+ (saeouenbes) sequmu Touuey IGIN 38S x/ €€T TU IGIW CIS eUuTJEpH 

/~ “NOVA SFY A0J SUMTOA QeS y/ ZET ojureukq( GIS euTsopH 

/» °Pe!AZ STUQ 4A0J ermzeubtTs Ay Jes y/ TET Bisheyx CIS SUuTsopt 

/+ °“MPeIW STOR A0Z SrnqeubHTs euyty Aes y/ ET STSeUTL GIS SuTzep# 

/» °3}0813 STYQ 40J szequMU QUeUMAQSUT JES y/ 67T JUSUM~AZSUI GIS SUTJOpH 

/+ °(e,0u e se Yem103 eZep cures) Yso1e y/ ZT Se dIS SUuTJOpH 
/»+ °(qo3Td) szequmu eu02 IGIW ©43 ST CIS » 
‘seqou ese (9 = 37q UTS) SIONASET IS + 

yPnosuy SIONISATTZ GIS eHues eyR uF SGIS s/f LZT S3ONQSET GIS SUTIOPH 

0 ©IONISATA CIS SuTJop}H 

/* ‘yAIS, Sepoo edAQ Queags ,/ 


‘queags { 
/+ exep Juepuedep-qis ,/ sezep aLXaNn 
/+ @poo edkq Quengs ,/ ‘GIS aLxAn 

} ona3s jepedAy 


/~ ‘WUeAS TeOTSMM STdITS :AUeAGS ,/ 
/» °()Queags ue sutejuoo xuNYyS WWUL s/ 
(4. We (ote “eZ, J) GIONEN AVUL-GI euTzep} 


*SUOTITUTJOP EIQ MOTTOJ WUEATS YoeO UO STTeIEg ‘“SENTeA CIS peuTjep 
ATQueLMO SYR pue WUEATS pue ywaL 103 suosy{zuTjep edAA D SeyA Sue S10} 


"SJOTTJUOCD pToae 
03 esnoubuyseeToO Te.zqUueo e Aq pe_ecoTTe eq ASM SEpoo GIS :UoTRANeD 


*@100S & UT SQUeAS pezjubooe.um weno ATs ATesyes ueo surexHoid 
qeuq os sedAq Quess sou Aue udtsep AT[njeseo [ITA O&M “pueAsiepun ysnu 


ureiboid Azeae 7eUuQ seuo ATuo eq ere SQUOAS ,,3S01, pue ,870U, SUL *einj{nJ 
eu UT peuTjyep eq ued sedAQ QUeAe MOU BOUTS STQTSUSIXS ST JeUoOJ STUL 


-puetedo 3Tq-7UbTe ue pue epoodo 4Tq-3Y4HTe Ue GTA UOTIONAQSUT 

ebenSuel euTyoeul e OATT ST STUL ‘°eVeP QuUepuedep-edAA Jo sjtTq AUHTe pue 
wdIS, Ue peTTeo pretz edAy 37q-3uUbTS ue sey QueAgs toeq (,,°UEAS TeoTsnM 
SIdITS,, SueSU ,,QUEATS,)  “Plcce1 ,3UEATS, Ue Se peiojIs ST users He 


*SQUBAD ,,030U,, Pepszoyo UTeQUOD UueS AeUuQ ‘ST 2eUQ 

‘oyuoydATod eq ueo S081 SUT, “Apso SUIT, UT petoJS ‘1zeTNpeyds STdTs e 
03 spueumoo AT[Tee1 ere SQUEAY ,,‘WUeUMAQSUT 30S, pue ,,°3SO4,, ,, ‘2 0U,, 

se yons ,squeAe,, 37q-9T JO Aesse Ue ST UNO YVUL © JO JueqUOS SUL 


*yoes3 sed xUNYO AVAL SUuo--,,s270e13,, TeTTeszed Hut quese.ide. 
SYUNYS YWWYL S4A0ul Ao EUO UT Pe10YS SF @100S e JO WUSEQUOD UTeUl SUL 


‘yUNUD ,TSNIy 
SY} Wi0J 02 PeSTAGA SEM AI “SNWS UT SFSTOSGO ST ,,ISNI, OdAQ yUNYO SUL 


ISNI Aj4edoig e7eTOSgGQO 


‘eureu Aq ejep QueumMsqsuT 
HuTAeooT AOJ uNATA0HTe eyQ 103 eAoge UOT OES ,puNo.Hy0eg, EY Ses 


‘UOTIEZTPepuUe_S OMANI 4A0J peAteset ere pTEeTz edAQ ey JO SENTeA AETRO 
‘queumsj3suT peureu eu} 403 ooT sAemte 11,AOUL “e2eP IGIW SUR eAOCUHT 
qsn{ LITA s3nd3no IGIW Nou_TA Ss4eynduoo pue suesborg ‘“zezep # Woseid 
‘Teyep # TOUUeYO IGIW UO QUeUMAASUT Ue 103 HOOT suecw IGIW TSNI 

= edAQ entea y ‘0 03 Wes eq Asnf prTnoys Zejep pue TeJep “eseo STYR UT 


-eureu Aq AueumiqsutT ue puTy Asnf suecw oureyTSNI = edAQ enTeA W ‘PTET; edA 


euy Aq peT[o1QU0D ST SzequMU ejep eseyR JO SSN SU], “WUSUMAASUT Ue G}eESOCT 
dtey 03 suequmu ejep omy Sey xUNYS TSNI ue ‘eureu QueUMAASUT ey SepTseg 


"(az xey ‘Optta) S.a yBnomwy (02 

xeq ‘gs) s y ebuer eyQ ut Szeq0ereyO TIOSW 37q-8 jo Aesse ue ATduys 

st Buya3s eu ‘UMD TSNI S43 JO SEZTSyxO SY} Worl peuTULIejep oq ued 
uy6ue, but14s eu *‘WUeUMAYSUT EIQ 4A0J euUTeU 3xXeQR e SeATH PTSETJ Sureu SU] 


‘sueq_stThe1 Queumiqsuft mez e ATUO peou [TTM Se100S SOU 
‘eotqoesd UT ‘*Ssz ubno.mwg 0 Wo1y ebuer ued pTeTz szeqsTHe1 ey, =‘ 46e3sTbe1 
Jequnu 1e3sjbe1 Queumaqsuy 10j QucUMAQSUT SYR SoureU yUNYyO TSNI uy 


/queumszsuyjoy { 

/s eureu QueumsqsuT ,/ ‘(Jeweu wviID 

/+ PTOTZ yoda, eq uo spuedep ,/ ‘geqep ‘Tewep ALXAGN 

/» 0dkQA eoussejer QueumsjsuT ,/ ‘edA aLxaNn 

/» szeqamu 41403s7be1 QueumsjsuT sTYyR Aes ,/ ‘seqstTbe. ZLXEN 
} On13s jzepedA 
/= <3@Se1d ‘TouUeY>> IGIW = <zezep ‘TeReP>> ¥/ T IGIN ISNI SUTJOPH 
/= zexep ‘TeAep S1ouby ‘oureu eyA esn ysnf y/ 0 SUENISNI SUTJOPH 
Je ‘yodk3, PIETJ JUSUMAQSUTJZEeY EY 403 sonTeA y/ 


(T, ‘oS. ‘oNs “eI, QIOMEW TSNI-GI eutzop# 


B - 57 


:e1njqoONAAS 
QUSATS SYA UO PTeTAEAO O.MQONAAS HuTMOTTOJ ey sey AUeAgS ,,e1n}eubTs 
CUT, W “4OeAZ SYR AOJ GunqeuHTs euyy eA sjes Hiseurl~ dIS Jueags Sul 


qUBATS EinzeUubTS suTL eS 


*qUeUMAASUT SUO OF PSOXTZ ST 

YOe1W yore ‘QUEAS QUSCUMAASUT GIS SUA JuSWweTduUT Jou seop uwerboud e jI 
°S$Sz Ubno.rwQ 9 ehuert sy UT sequmU 4eASTHe1 QueUMAASUT Ue ST PTETJ 
eVep’4UeATS SQI °‘seqou HuTMoTTos ey sAe[Td qQucumsaqjsutT yoTyM ‘ST jeUQ 
‘yoeAQ eB 4OJ UequMU QUEUMIQSUT el Sabueyo QueuMIASUT GIS WUeAAS euyL 


* sequMU 
YOeIR Sl OF 3ES81 Eq PTNOYS szSequMU JUSUMAASUT S,7oe19 ALeAo ‘pokeTd 
ST G100S SUR SUT We “ORO ’T QUSCUMAQSUT 02 38S ST T HOeAL °sequmU 
yOe1Q Sl ST sequmMU QUeUM.QSUF S,0e13 YORE soz HuytAQes TeT {TUT SUL 


' 4eqSTHa1 A0TOO,, © YOno1W, A0TOO & 03 SoUSIEJOI © ‘deunTq e UT 

JoquMU AOTOO © ONT ST STuy (‘uoT_IOSS ,,puNorzHyOKg,, SUA UT ,, ‘SiteqsTboy 
qUeUMARZSUT,, SES) *“WuSeUMAQSUT Ue OF SQUTOd UN UT YOTYUM ,,’1teqstTboe. 
queumijsuT,, ue Jo xepuy Aerre el ST sequmU QUeUM4QSUT Uy *stequMU 
queumijsutT ue st 9oe13 Auene JO SeTqeTuea oe je 4s HufuuNs Sy jo SUpO 


QUBATS JUsUMAASUT 39S 


‘ue e1oubt Ajtezyes ueo wesHoid sepeer yw ‘ueIQ eqeteueH 02 eAeYy 
3, Useop uesHoid seqT4M y *Teuo; Ado exe sedAQ Queags Suyuyewes eu, :ej0N 


/+ SPITZ UOTIeAnp peuTquIOS 40z yseu ,/ aexo ASeWanqeou euTyepi#t 
/+ PI©TZ UOTSTATP ENR Joy ySeEU ATC y/ SEZTCEIOU HsSeyCeEIOU eUTJEpH# 


SZTqe}OU eUTJEp}H 
yoqej,0U SeUTJEp# 
ZEGeEIOU EUTJEp# 
QTqe}0U eUTJEpH 

gqe}ou SuTzepi#t 
7ae{0U eUTJEpH 
Zd230U SUTJEpH 
Tqe,0Uu euTzepit 


/+ UOFSTATP ©20U EZT/T »/ 
/~= UOTSTATP SR0U YQMNOJ-AQXTS ,/ 
/~ UOTSTATP eR0U YQPUCSSS-ARQUTYR y/ 
/# UOCTSTATP EJOU YQUSeeIXTS ,/ 
/~= UCTSTATP ER0UuU YQUHTE ,/ 

/-» UCTSTATP eR0U seRZeNb ,/ 

/+ UCTSTATP OJou ZTeY y/ 

/~ UOTSFAFP SROU STOYM y/ 


/* P23990P STF ER0U x/ (€>>>>T) 


CANNY OLY 


30qe}0U SUTzEpH 
/+ PTIOTZ AETGNIU eyA soz ysSeu ATq y/ LNSEJOU HsSepNe Vou euTyep}# 


/+ 7 TdnXAdes e ST ejoU y/ (3 TUSN®30U>>>>¢) LN2}0U SUTJepHt 
/~ 3 TdnAuTNb e st ej0u ,/ (23 FUSNEIOU>>>>Z) GNOIOU EUTJEp# 
/+ TdT23 e ST Ejou ,/ (23 FUSNSIOU>>>>T) ENSIOU SUT Jop}# 


/* PTETZ YETAUnIU soz QuNCS AZTUS y/ F IFTUSNEIOU SUTJopH 
/+ Pscyo/ejou 3xXeUu 02 pet? s/f  (9>>>>T) AnoeTLeou euTzep}# 
/= ©{0U 3xeU 02 pep4scgo sf ej0uU yf (L>>>>T) proteqou euTjep#t 


| ‘SUOTITUTZEp HuyMOTTOJ S4A ESN ‘eseo JeyQ uy “HuzyzTYys pue 
6Huty7sew Aq weuA S[QUeSSesTp O23 pue squeqsuOd Huy-40 Aq senTteaA ejep 


eTquesse 03 seTsee eq QUuHTU AT ‘eIONS Emjonz3s pexoed-3Tq ey} JO peszsul 
‘Jepio SUT UT seedde squeAe ASe1 pue SoU “xHUNYO YVAL © UTUITM 


*peiouby ere SQUeAS ASe1 jo 
SPI@ETJ 3oOeT}? pue psoyo sul, *4WSeuA SIA JO UOTRZeANp SYA STTS3 FI *e70Uu 
e Se platy eep'queags sures eyA sey (3SeN CIS = CIS) QuUeAe 4se1 VY 


*‘supTqoid e14xe ou 

esod spicy pet ‘ST 3eUL *SeTR JO Sssueseid eYyQ UF UeAS SeQOU pep.40yo 
e1ouby Atduyts ueo suesboud yoesz3-oTuoydouow ‘enaz s,3euQ JI “YoRTd sures 
eu jo ajou e Aq poMoT{[OJ 3,USTF 3nq eS STF 3FQ ANOST A SSOYM jou e 

‘ST 3eUQ ‘OT peATOSeuun ue exz0uUHyT 03 YHnouse yYsnqo4’ eq prnoys swesp01g 


‘squeags 3sey dis 03 Atdde 3,u0p spTetz 3NOSeTR pue pszocyo ey “eSanod JO 


"38S ATQ ANOSTI SIT SAeY PTNoYsS psocyo peTz e uy ejou AteAg *sejou 
pep.izcyo e.10ul 40 suo jo dnoszH seyjoue 03 SejOU peps0yo Siow! 10 GUO JO 
dnos6 © seT3 wsTueyoou ef3 oy ’ATTen}ow ‘suoTze1np QueUCdUCD eUR 
jo ums eu ST UOCTIZeuNp esoYyM ojou eTHuTs e se poAetd st sejou pet z 
jo dno.6 y ‘yoqtd cures ey sey ojou HuyMoTToJ ey JF AOeAQ SYR UT 
ej0u HuyMoT{[OJ ey R 02 Pet? SF S7OU SYA ‘AOS SF ANOPTF PTETZ SU JI 


‘eqou Apo[sul sqft 410 

@}J0U 30021 S,p4cyo eyy eq AUHTW SoU QuUejJOdUITT YSOW SY “psocyo eYyR Jo 

Sej0u RUeUOdUT ysow eyq AeTd TTT suresHoud ofuoydouow ’Aem STU, °3Tq 

p4oyo 0 SY UATA Sj0U ely SF YOTYM “3SeT pszocyo yore JO oS j0U quez10duyt 
3SoUul EY} 9109S 03 peRoedxe exe sores} OTUCYdATOd eqee10 QeYyQ suresbo1g 


*yoe13 eA HutAetd ueym Qt Hupddyx3s Aq 40 
yOe13 eYQ HuTpee.z ueym Ay Huppszeostp Aq seuATe “JOS ST YFQ P4soyo SSOYM 
quene ej0oyNs Aue es0oubt Atduys ueo seXkeTd yoesq-oTuoydouou w (°0 ,AeTep 

Axque,, Sy soxyeu T 03 3Tq p4soy eyy Huy33es ‘YDSO pue dSss jo AHOTOUTULIO 
eu ur) ‘eUuo YSeT EY 3Nq TTe JO AT pAcyD Syy HuTAQes Aq seyRebo} pep.scyo 
eq Aew seqou jo dno. y ° (uot zeunp sures ey eAey OF pesoddns st qofua) 
©j0u HuTAOTTOJ SU UATA pEepsoyo SF SOU SYA JF SoPeOTPuT PAouo Plots SUL 


-etqe Surddeu e ojuT xepuy ue se Sq xTS peuTquIOO ey Butsn 

Aq Bbuypooue uot Aeunp TesoT snoK 03 A4eauco ATTsee ued noA os snonbyzAu0S 
e1e spreTz sem esouy {1/9 ’S/e ‘e/Z ‘TH ¥ {2/€ “TH ¥ UOTSTATP-Z ST 
4Sse1 JO ©320U ey JO UOTReINp eT ’10Y4ReH0} SpTeTs Sseuyy eseyR Hut Aqng 


‘Buot se 4/9 SF AeTdnQdes e pue Huot se G/f ST 

qjeTdnqutnb e eTTuM ‘ejou Tew40ou e se Huot se ¢/z SF Sej0U AeTdT43 VW 
*(Tr+cqeTdnpucyrz) aepso Jo JoTdnq-N ue *Z 4O ’G ’E ‘(Teul10ou) T szep40 
JO AeTdn3-N ue Jo ZIed ST YsSe1 10 EVOU STUR JF STI93 (€ Yom, 0) 
jeTdnypu enTeA Sey, *ejOU peyjopuN ue se Huot se Z/E SF SoU pez Op 

W °peqjop sft 4Se1 AO Sjou ely JF So_eoTpUT op Sup °57e “oRou JTeY 
‘JOU STOUM :UOTReANp OTseq SYyQ SeATH UOTSTATP SUT, "SEA AO SOU SYA 
JO uoTReAnp eYyQ eATH 2z0yWe60R UOTSTATP pue ‘Rop ‘ZeTdN]LU spTeTs SUL 


| *4S@1 © SOJEOTPUT ZT 

JO ONTRA YW “Z4Z7T YSNo.y 9 ebues oNQ UT (YORTd) szequmU SU0RZ IGIN SUF 
SOQEOTPUT ‘PTOETI CIS’ RUEATS OY UATA PTETASAO SF YOTYM ‘EU0R’SQONS PTOTJ 
SUL, *HOeIQ © UT ,,3SE4, JO ,ej}0U,, GUO SeqT4oSep euNjQoNAS ERONS SUL 


*MOTSq PSUTJEp SZUeISUOD PTETJ-ITQ Sy ESN ‘UOTIeENZTS WeWQ UT 4Se7Aq-g¢ 
©7722 SIONS SNHEU PTNOM wTYA “ONOT & OF 3NO SpPTeTZ 3FqQ Jo dnosb e sped DO 
00089 S0T33e71 ‘eTdurexe 103 *ATsedoid sptetjy pexoed-37q Juswetduy jou op 
SAeTTdIoo eulog :buyusTeEM “QUeATS 4AeyR0 Aue OATT S2FQ QT CAUT SITJ SIONS UY 


B - 58 


:0dmIaq TeqoTS euA selTecse.1 jem 
odmeleTeos IS queAgS ,odue3 eTeos, e st AQTITaTssod eup ‘juUeAe odie A 
ebueyo eyQ SutuTequos xoesg eyQ asnf Qou ‘’sxoerg [Te sqOeJJe Ode sty 
HuybueyD *e1cos e Huyunp ode, sehHueyo Quengs ,Cdweq ebueyw, y :enss] 


‘pesn eq 30h 
OU Pp[NoYSs pue UucTIe1epTsuoS uepun exe sedAQ Aueags HufMo[[oJ suy, 


"AQFAP_QO"S STyW Jo ebreyo UT ©q TITA 

ehtury-Sx10poumioD ‘Ee ReRS ,,3Jeup,, EUW sessed puepueAs SNWS STUQ USM 
"SQOTTJUOD PToAe OF ,,esnoyuhuy4zeelo,, Tesqueo e Aq pejeocoT[e eq Asm sepoo 
GIS :uoTAneD ‘specu EiN{QNJ 40J poAtESei Gue HSGZ YHNOUW} ONOT pue EFT 
ybnosuy EET Sepoo CIS CYL “einynj SYA UT peuTjJep eq ued SUBATS S10W 


peuTjeq eg OL squeags e10W 


*Axoucul HuUPYAOM UT YORYUT YeULIOJ YWAL PSTTJ euQ esn 03 eptoep nok 
3T [njyoesn eq Aeu AI °OLTJ © UT pe10AS 4easu ST QUeAS STU *ALOURU 
Huy y40M UT 4AexAeW pue Ue AOJ peAtESE.1 ST HIE" GIS edAA AUeAAS SUL 


QUSATS AACW-Pug 


*SQU@ATS SSeq AeA0 dps prnoys 
sueiHoid seujO ‘esodund sfqQ 403 peAszesei oie 6ST Yhnouuy PHT SeNTeA GIS 
-weiboid OTSnW QUeASUL SYQ ACJ eVep S_ZeATAd 40J pesn eue sSQ_UEATS UuseqXTS 


SWUSATS SFATA OTSMW WWeISUT 


‘peeqsut sueqsT5e.1 Queum.qjsuTt esn prnoys suresHoud s6euj7O ° 1zequmu 
qeseid JGIW e suTeqUOo ejhq e ep SUL "WUGAB TEAST MOT QeSeid-IqIW-3es 
SU} pAccoe.z 02 sureswHoud sep100e1 A0J SF AOSOIG IGIW GIS QuUeAgTS SUL 


qUBATS 39S04d ICIW 39S 


‘peeqsut suceqsTbe1 queum.qsuft esn prnoys surexuGoid s6eq90 ° zequmu 
jeuueyS ICIW © SuTeqUOD e7Aq ejep SUL, *RUBAS [SAST MOT TOUUEYO-IGIW-3eS 
GQ PAccde1 02 sufesHoud uepsccet AOJ ST [UND IGIW GIS QUeAgS SUL 


quendS Touued) ICIW 39S 


* (SUMTOA 

TINJ) LZT SF TOAST OFueuAp QI[NeJep EYL ‘“xUNq YCHS EQ} UF GUMTOA 
@100S [[e4seAo EUW Aq PSETeOS ST ,, TO1\QUOS SUMTOA HOeIR,, STU *HOeIQ EUW 
UT SeAOU HUTAMOTIOJ ACJ ,, [TOAWUOS GUMTOA,, © SAOS STUL “LZZT YOnosuy oO 
dequmu AATOoTeA Ae IGIN & SF PIOTZ S3ep SAI “UOCTPEION OTSNW UCUMIOD 
uy 333 pue ddd ex;{ »x4zeu ofweuAp e squeseidei ofueudd GIS Queags uy 


queAgs 4reW oTureudg 


*queags 5tsheyxaIs 
ASATzJ Sy e10Jeq xoe13 Axeas ut Avy QINejep eA sft sofeul Dd *yOe1Q 
Qeu3 ut sejou HuyTMoTTOs eyW 103 Asx eyA sebueyo queags SHtsheydIs WV 


qqqqqaq ee) eT #HHHHHHE #9 “cr 
qaqqag a eT #HHHHHE #4 or 
qaqqq aa ZT #HHHHE g Sc 
qqqq qv TT +HHHE a wr 
qqq qq OT +H VW er 

qq qq 6c $Ht a zr 

q a ec + 5 tr 

feu > or 


UOTREION OTSNW Key = BFE. UOT REQON OTSNW Aey «RRQ 


:Aey sofeu e Huypooue szequmu qLAGN © ST PIETs 
eqyep SRI ‘Oe1 SYQ 403 emyeubys Ae eyA sjes Stshey GIS Jueags uy 


queags e.myeubts Acy 


/+ PTETZ STsaeuy ey soz ySeM ATq x/ LOXO ASeNCSEUT eEUTJOpH 
/~ PTOTZ STSNeWTy A0zZ QuNOS AzTYS »/ € IF TUSNSUTY SUTJOpPH 
/+ PT©TZ STSNEWF SUR soz ySeM ATC ¥/ BIXO ASEWNSUT SUTJEPH 


‘SUOTITUTJEp HuTMOTTOJ eyA esn ‘eseo eA uy ‘Huy IZTYS pue Hbuyxseu 
Aq wey eTquessestp 02 pue sue jsuoo Hut-410 Aq senzeA ejep eT quesse 
0} teTsee oq QuiTu ay ‘HTSewTIS eanjon43s pexoed-3Tq eyA JO peeqsu] 


‘WSU PSECU SA0RTpe OTsnu esneceq SNWS WYOA & 

HuyT7ee1o USM WWUL wee jo Huyuuybeq ey ye wey 4nd prnoys seunqeupts 
eu} sey 7eUA wesbord Aue ‘sseTeyeuON * (euTQ p/u ‘Z = STSqeuT? JT 

ATuo eqnutu sed szeeq sTenbe eqnuTu sed sejou sezZAeNh) ‘emmjeubyts suzy Jo 
quepuedeput ‘eqnuTu sed sejou seq41enb uf pesseidxe ATuioztun st odie], 
‘yoeqheTd S,e100S ey UO 30ezzZe OU Sey einqjeUbTS SUT A SYR eR GueMe Og 


‘out? ¢/p ST SanjeubTs euT A Q[Nejep Syl 

‘7 = Stsqeur3 ’e = STsNeuyy se pesseidxe st euty f/f OS * (eACGe ‘UOTSTATP 
©I0NS.eesS) ejou HTsqewTz-z © STF ,7eeq, TORS st QeyQ ‘OTSCewTIZ ST 
yloqyeuTUOUep,, SanjzeubTs Suz Sty SeReOTpUT Htsqeuyy PISTJ SUL ‘eunseou s0)8d 
szeeq ze Ybnosmwy T ‘ST 2eU9 ‘T + STSNEWTQ ST ,,4OQe1CUMU, SANjeUbTS Sut 
eu seqeoTpuT STSNewWT. PTSETJ SUL “QUeAS ,SImQeUbTS SUTR, e ST WUSATS 

STuQ WeuQ HuyReotpuy ‘HySeUTL GIS enTeA eyA suTeQuCo edAQ pleTs SUL 


‘MOTE POUTJep 

SUEJSUOD PISETJ-3TqQ eyQ esn ‘uOTIeNATS yeqR UT jSe7Aq-¢ exeR HTseuTIs ue 
@xeUl PTNOM YOTYM “ONOT © OF 3NO SPTeTZ 3Fq Jo dnoaH e sped D SeoTQ3e] 
‘etduexe 10q ‘AlTszedoid sptety pexoed-jTq QueweTdny 3,uU0p sie, }Tdun0S 

ewog :6bujusem “QueAgqs sz0eyuj0 Aue OxTT S3Tq 9T OUT S37Z HTSeUTLs uy 
"AQTq AUeOTFTUBTS AseeT OF YTQ QueoTZTUHTS Ysow ‘UMOYS Jepso SYR UT 

S{Tq U OqUT porjoed ore SpleTs ,U:, peubTsuN ‘ST Tejep uot; IEQueUMS[ dT] 


‘itseutis { 
/~ ©7JOU INSZT = LI ‘eou seqeNb = Z ¢ 
‘e30U JTeY = T ‘SOU STOUM = 0 x 
:BTSCeEUTIAZ STF ,1oORFeuTMOUep, “STs euyty y/ ‘¢: Btsqeurry 


/~« T + OTSNeEUT SF ,,207eACumU,, ‘BTSs out ,/ ‘s: Stsnews3 peubtsun 
/+ StseuTr-dIs = +/ -edAQ aLXGNn 
} QonaQgs zepedéA 


B - 59 


STseuTl GIs SeuTsep# 
6ZT  JucumMzAsSUL GIS SUTJopH 


qsewdIs Sutsopt 


/~= °40e8IQ STIR 10Z EmQeuHTs euyTy Aes ,/ oeT 
/~= *HOCAQ STUR AOJ sequMU QUeUMQSUT AES ,/ 


/+ (e30u © se QeuL0J eQep cues) Jsore ,/ SzT 
/+ ° (qo3;d) szequmu eu0l IGIW SM ST GIS x 
*sejou ere (9 = 37q UbTS) eRONASET GIS + 

ybno.y S{ON3SATA GIS ehues O4A UT SIS ,/ L7T S30NQSET GIS SUTJEpH 

0 SIONASAT A CIS SUTJop# 

/+ °yQIS, Sepoo edAQ Queags ,/ 


‘queags { 

/+ exep yuepuedep-qIs ,/ ejep aLAAN 

/= 9p02 ad Auesgs ;/ ‘qIs aLxan 
} Jona3s jepedhy 


/~ ‘UES Teotsnm eTduTS :queAgS ;/ 


/+ °(U)queags ue sutequoo UNG YWHL +/ 
(4. Ws (ate sD AION WWAL- GI SuTJep# 


/s eureu qQuoumaqjsut y/ ‘[Jeueu yVvHD 
/+ PTSTZ ,edAQ,, eq UO spuedep ,/ 
/- OdkX souseteje1 QueumsqsuT ,/ ‘edAQ aLXGN 
/» Jequmu se3sT6e1 Queumijsuy sTyy yes ,/ ‘szeqstbe1 ALAN 
} qon.s zepedsy 


/= < sesad ‘Teuueqo>> IGIW = <zezeEp ‘TeWep>> ;/ T IGIN TSNI SUTJEpHt 
/« zexep ‘Te ep rade ‘oureu oy esn yAsnf ,/ Q SUeN TISNI velo a 
x °,20h3, PIOTZ JucumsQsuljey Sy} 40J SONTEA x 
ji, ai eeiae s Gt, Sh il ‘,1I,) GIOxNeEW TSNI- CI oe 
s° 3x03 S,touqne ‘[]yyHD © suTeqUOD UMS ONAN + 
(0, ‘sN. ’sN. °.W,) CTOEN ONNW GI eUTzopH 
/~= ‘aoqqne S,e100S eq Jo cureu enR ‘[]uWHD © SUTeqUOO yUNYO HIN +/ 
4. era ae t seat ithe ‘sn, ’.W, GION oth Pel 
*° ‘ ‘DhuweD & sutequoo yunyo , (>), ¢ 
(, a “as (6%, %s) J aTereN yUbTsAdoD “I eUTJepH 
/+ ‘meu S,e100S TeoTsm eyR ‘[]uYHD e suTeqUOS >UNYS FWWN +/ 
(0, ‘Ws ‘.W. ‘ N,JGIOIEN ANWN CI SUTzJOpH 


/uepeeyesooss { 
/~ @100S OGY UF SyxdesQ JO QuNOS y/ ‘yOeALIO ALAAN 
/* L7T YBnosyA OQ sumToa »oeqkeTd T[Tes98r0 y/ ‘eumMToA FLAGN 
/~ eyNuTU/SeZOU sezTeNb su;EZT ‘oduey y/ = ‘oduez CyOMN 
} qona3s zepedhy 


(,a, ‘6d, ‘sH, ‘.S,)QTOXEN UCHS GI SUTJEpH 

(S. ‘sf ‘sWs ‘.S,)CIOXEN SANS GI SUTIEPH 

*O48Z 03 SPTOETZ ,ped,, 

Tre Jes prnoys suerHo1ig -e7Aq 3TqQ- UTS ue ojUT pexoed ST PISeTJ ZLAGN V 
“UMOYS Aepio SY UF PeTTF Sse spleTjy ‘sucTyyuTjep edAQ ,jONWQs, eu UI 
*juUsUMOOp STU UF SUCTITUTJep edAA D SYR JO UOTIOST[OO e ST S10H 


*,A8UI, GI JO AUNYO & UF UOFQeULIOJUT G100S 
Teqo[H subs sei0JS OTsMW AueAsUr *3-MYy 4,UeS syUNYO SQeAT 4d jo 
eoueseid eu os ‘som pezfubooe.zun 180 dtxys suresHoud uepees JAI TIW 


*uOTReULIOJUT EReATAd SAF E109S 03 UerHo1d seTNoOTZ4ed SUC 4103 peubysep seue 


3eu3 SAWS WHOd & UT syuNYD eeATid eq UES e10q ‘WuOT aa Aue uy sy 


‘OUTINOACNS YOre 4103 , WULS, AUN xoesQqQns pezequMU e ESN OF 
st AQtTITqTssod pajtuy yw ‘“Ssqueae »OesQqns jo ATei;jUe xOe1Q ,UTeU, ST 
esodmoo 3asnf ‘.wadv, SxXtT eouenbes e SuyAeTd jo eepy A1ceyA oTsma eyR 

Xpoque oy, ‘yeede.1 pue Aetd 03 47 JO SuoT Quod Huy AoeTes useyQ pue ,79e13 
e umop ButAetT, 4SATZ JO SOTQOeId Huypscoe.1 ede ey STepoul osTe AI 
‘yoerjqns usyjoue se pesn eq ued yORAQGNS SUC JO UOCTII0Od © esNnedeg 

Teteuab Aiea St STU] “SopeaQQNS [Te JO pus pue j7e3s eA HuTUTJEp YWaL 

eu} SpTsyno xuMYS yal ue yi ‘szequmu xepuy Aq xoe1QQNS e [TBO OF ST 
AATITtq}ssod puoces yw ‘“squUEAgS ZTS se aej se Yoeoi ued QUeAS YS CIS 
eu UF PTETZ eep 4TqQ-QUHTe SUL “SIA CIS JUeAS HOeAQQnS-UWhoIj -UAN}e4 

e pue yd GIS queEAS xYoOesQQnS-07-Yoeiqd SATIETO1L © GUTJEp OF ST 
AATITqTssod eup ‘pue pue VZIeAS ST »AAeUEp ASM OM ’HOeAQCNS © SUTJOEp OL 


‘gons pue ‘’sepoo ‘sHuTpue AsuTy ‘sQeedei jo 

SUOTIETIEA ETQTSSod ey [Te espooue oj AemM SoTU e ST STUL “SQUEATS jo 
SOTASS JEyQOUe 02 ,TTeO SUTANOgns,, © ATTeTIUESSe ST WUEAS ,,#oOe1QqNS,, 
W ‘quan ,e100SGnS,, JO ,,4oeIQQNS, e ST SATPEUASEQTe Te10Ueb S10" Y 


(-35 

BHutzTTeseueS szeptsuon) ‘dno.6 qeede.1 AsoureuutT ey 03 settdde Atuo Queso 
Huypuy GIS STUL ‘2equmu Hutpue eyA seaTh prlefz ejep’jueags ey ° ,Sutpue 
puoces, 410 ,SuTpue 4suTj, SAFI uoTQOes e suybeq Suppug dIs quese uy 


*370e1Q Sq JO pus Sy} 
qe pue ATTecTzeuojqne sueds qeodei [Iw ‘peqseu eq ued sueds jeodey 


* IBABIOJ 
qeedet,, 103 9 10 sowty gsz YBnozyR T’QUNOO UCTIe1e3F Ue eATS pTnoo queAa 
qeedeyutbeg eyy UT PTeTJZ eWeEp’queAgS euT, “eoTaQ peXeTd st qeedeypug 

ue pue QeedeyutTieg e usemjeq squeAe jo ueds euy *x0e13 eUO 403 UedS 
qeede1 e euTjep qeedeypuy GIs pue jeedeyuTbeg GIs sqUueAe eYy :enss] 


‘eqe198ueH 03 4eTduTs eq Aeu QueAgs ,odme es, SUR 

‘JOABMOR «°S100S euQ HuTanp suotWey sea odieq Quewertduy ATTsee [ITs 
pue suf, eouewiozued [TTe18eAo eyW Asnfpe 03 odue TeqoTH eyQ s8eRTe 
asnf ueo wesdoad »xoeqhetd eyq qeuQ st odwejeteos gis jo ebequeape uy 


‘ode SuTju4eqjs e 

Aidwys sft ode S,YqHS SUR ‘suBIDS sTUR UL ‘SHUT IQeS esunod 4103 pepeou 
3,UST qUeAS oduerTIeS euR OS ’9 03 E7hq ACT OR Sjes ATTeEOT QEUORNe 
OdZeIHIES ‘eqnuTW/aeqjou 4equenb suygzT ut Suy{AQes oduweq seu e jo 

e7{q MoT eyQ seaT6 oduelT3eS GIS pue e7Aq ySty ey seaTh oduelMeS CIS 
“OdIBLTIES GIS pue odUBIHIES CIS :S#UCEAS OAR ST GATQEUISRTE Uy 


*squewetouT %r Arubno.1 uy zx 03 
SZT/Tx wosz eueynAue (YGHS ©43 UT) odueQ Teqo[S eYyA eTeos ued STUL 


ezt / (tT + e3ep) ,» odmerTeqoTS =: odmeyque.ms 


B - 60 


"edh3 WHOA eGR EzTUbooe.s 3, USeOP 3¥ JT WA QucUMQsSUT 

ue ex1oupT [TTA we.sHoid quetTdtoez e ‘eSINOD JO ‘SOFOA peTdues 31q-8 
daI yXASG, JUSumoop eA ees ‘eTduexe 10] “SNWS WAOd S42 UT poppequa 
WuOd e2ep QueunzjsuyT jo put Aue squeseidei Guoysuly ~uNYO euUy, 


*syuNgo WWUL Sd? 

epeceid Aeqq se Huot se ‘xzepi0 Aue ut szeedde Aeu somo ISNI pue ‘ONNW 
‘AOU ‘HINW ‘3QHTAAdOD ‘AWWN ‘NCHS SUL ‘SezeoTpuT uoTsseidxe seTnbo1 
STQ} S€ 2074S se OU ST SNWS WHO @ UF sopMGS Jo sepuo eyQ ‘’ATTeNQOY 


*,f0], se uaoys st e3Aq ped 
pepecu-seulrjeuos y "SUOTIEOTTGOL @AOU AO 0 suecu u¥y Pue ‘Teuotjdo ere 
[sueqyt Jexoe1q erenbs] ’,,seqonb,, up uMOYS ere SUBIT TesteqTT *seqAq eQep 

{peoceiq} HuyMo[Toz eqy JO WUMOS ONOT SZTSIO e sqUeseidet ,#,, US02 SU], 


{ > }4#t ,WUOT, =3: 4 Wioguqsuy 
{ #qUeAgS }+ WEL, =": Wal 
fo] { queumxsuljoy }4# ,TSNI, =": TSNI 
Co] { vavHD Ht WONNW, =": ONNW 
{ ove }# wACULy =: ABUI 
fo] { evH> }+ ,HINV, =": HINW 
Co) { sav HE, (2)4 2:  WBHT-sAdop 
fo] { ¥aWHD H+ ,aWWN, =: oWWN 
{ epeoqei0ccss }+ NCHS, =: aHs 


{ yWLI0qAQSUT yNWAL ¥TSNI ¥ONNW 
(sear) Catny] ([au6;2Adop] [anvn] ucHS uSNWS, }4# wad, =": SONS 


euo JO Qued 40 SLTJ JAI ue eq prnoo 
stu, °-xequAs sows WOd ©aQ jo Axeumms uoTsseudxe serndei e s,cu0yH 


uoTsseidxg seTnbey SNWs 


/+ °L@T°°0 AQpootea As IGIW © ST ONTeA ,eIep, ,/ 
/»= 3ueAgs ofueuAg GIS +/ 


/s "@D'q0’ ad’ ay’ ag ad’ a = PT Gonos} g ¢ 
#0‘ #a'a'a’w'd’D = L Ynormy T ‘feu = 0 onTea ,ejep, »/ 
/» WueAGS btshey Is x/ 


/+ PTETS Stsqeuyy eqy 103 ysem 3Tq ¥/ LOXO ASENCSUT SUTJOpH 
/+ PT@TS STSNewTZ Aoz JuNCS QZTYS y/ € ITUSNSUT SUTJOpPH 
/+ PT©TS STSNeuTy eq 203 yseU Tq */ BAXO ASEWNEUTI CUTJOPH 


‘6tseutis { 
/» @30U TREZT = L I ‘ejou szoqueEnb = Z 
‘ejOU JTeY = T ‘SJOU ETOUM = 0 x 
:BySqeuy3Z ST ,1A0JeuTUOUSP, “STs cut  ,/ ‘¢: Stgqeury 
/+ T + STSNSUT ST ,toqZeseumu, “Hts eutQ y/ ‘Ss: Stsnewy3 peubtsun 
/+ StSeUTI-GIs = +/ ‘edA3 ss HLAGIN 
} Qon.4s jopedéy 
/+ ueags Stseurr-ais »/ 


/* °SS% GOnosgy 09 sequmu .z03SsThe.1 QUCUM.QSUT » 
ue ST ONTeA ,e3ep, AUeAGS USUMIQSUT CIS »/ 


JexX0 ASeWingejou euTsep} 
SZTGeIOU YSeyGeIOU eUTJEpH 


/+ SPTOTZ UOoTeMp peuTquioo 103 seu ,/ 
/+ PT©TF UOCTSTATP SYA soz ysSeu 3Tq »/ 
/+ UOFSFATP S30U EZT/T +/ EZ7TGejOU SUTJEPH 

/» UOFSTATP EjoU YRMojJ-AQXTS »/ 
/~ UOTFSTATP ©R20U YApUOSeS-ARZITIR y/ 
/~ UOCTSTATP EAOU TQUeSeAXTS ,/ 

/+ UOTSTATP S30U TQUHTS ,/ 

/= UOTSTATP SR0U szejZTeNb ,/ 

/» UOTSTATP O}0U ZTeq y/ 

/~ UOCTSTATP ©R0U TOYA ,/ 


SANMOMPNNOE 
A 
4 
° 
& 


/+ peyQ0p ST eqou ,/ (€>>>>T) 

/+ PTSOTF YETAnJU eyA s0z seu ATq ;/ LN©}OU ASeWNSIOU SUTJEpP# 
j, ee : = ao " Fete ania 

¥ uynb * IF TUSNSIOU>>>>zZ 

/+ 3©TdF4A3 © ST ER0U y/ IZ TUSNSIOU>>>>T) 

/+ PTSTZ RETGNILU Aoz QuNOS AZTYS y/ F IFTUSNSEIOU EUTJOpH 


/+ Pszoyo/ejou yxeu O73 pet  ;/ Q>>>>T) INOSTLEIOU BUTJOPH 
/~ 93OU YxKEU 03 PepsoYyo SF ej0U y/ L>>>>T) pacypeqou euTzep# 
‘@90NS { 
/~ ej0U UISZT = L I ’ejou sezenb = Z y 
‘eJOU JTeEY = T ’OROU y OTOUM = 0 » 
SUOTSFATP-Z SF uoCTZeAnp ejou oTseq ,/ €: UOTSTATP 


/+ %/¢ Aq uoyzeanp ATdyy nm ‘ejou pezj0p ;/ ‘T: 30p 
/» Jerdnydes = € » 


‘qetdnquynb = Z ‘Ae Td;43 = T ‘ouou = 0 y/ = qeTdnru 

/+ psroyo Jo ejOU 3xXeU eT 02 peTZ =T y/ 3NOST 

/~= 930U pepscoqD © = T s/f ‘T: ees peuftsun 

/-¢ 3SO41 = BZT ‘LZT 02 0 ACqUMU SCR IGIW x/ ‘eu0l ALAN 
} Aona4s jopedky 


/~= SWEATS WOW AIS ‘SIONASET GIS’ *SIONISATT GIS +/ 


/+ ‘WWI UT %rteU-pue ue 410J poAtesei qIS ;/ SSz WEN GIS SUTJOPH 
/- ‘UOTZEZTpszepue_S y 
GMANJ A0J PeATesel :HGZ uHno.wy dn sentea qis BbuyuTeuwoy ,/ 


/~= °“SqeATS OTSNW WUEASUT 10J peAreSEA 26ST GOn0sgQy HHT SONTeA CIS +/ 


VET WESC1T IGIN AIS SUTJOpH 
€€T TUN IdIW AIS euTsopH 

/~ ‘MOI STOR 103 GUMTOA Jes ,/ ZeT ojueuAd CIS SUTsepH 
/» °%0823 STUR 403 emyeubts As 36s ,/ TET Bishex CIS SuTsepH 


/+ (sateouenbes) sequmu jeseud IGIW 3°eS ;/ 
/ (sazeouenbes) sequmu TeuueYo ICIW eS ;/ 


B - 61 


Squy OTUOAQCeTA ‘uosTu0py Asser 

Squy OTUOIQ0eTA ‘seAeYy eASIS 

STEARJOS puMos nunyy ’UMOAg JJOSED 
seTbolouyoey, suey Aszeyp ’oRQeJeTIOg UdTeY 
ebyuy-e10poumioy ‘ystTemM Arreg 

SJuy CfUuOAOET_ ‘“MeYS SASS 

Squy OfUuOA_OeTYA ‘sex7TY beao 

Sqy OTUOIQOeT_ ‘uosT440om Auer 
ebyuy-Stopoumlog ‘TeOTW “fu 
ebyuy-e1opoumlog ‘Suing ,AeTPOy,, Fd 


:paepueyZs Jal STUR JO UbTsep eyy 03 peqnqy.squoo e[doed HuyMoT Tos Sul 


| 
| v Was, | 


| »zeaTnB, ‘0’0'0'Z | 
| OT ,TSNI, | 


ee a or we oe oe ee D> 


(sozA | 6 s TSNI, 


Q 
> 
OY 
—_ 


( OT sSWWN, 


[ v , adHS, 


<a coe ee ae eee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe ee ee ee Cee © ee oe ee Ss oe 


q a ae ee Ce et eee Cae eee ee ee oe 


6 sWaO, | 


+ ae Ce creme Cae emme comes eee eee Ge GED abe ae eae ese ee ee eae eee eee oe 6 ee ae eee eee ee oe eee 2 ee + 


*QUOAS 3SO1 T pue QUEAS OJ0U T SUTEQUOD OeIQ YOR’ °‘Sjoetq OmQ pue 
SAUCUMAASUT OM UATA SNWS © ‘oe Tduexe eTdutTs e 4a0j wesHetp xoq e S, e107 


B - 62 


*@[GIIEXS JOq ‘SUOTIOTAQSEA TeEUOCTIATppe SesodyT ereMpsey puUe SIEMQJOS JCATIP 
punos 3som “eAeQ00 szSeUuHTYy Qxeu eYyQ se HucT se eoTMQ eq ASTM eVeEp jo 
@Ae{OO Wore ‘O[dUeXe 4OJ “SUOTIOT1QSE1 GUIOS Sey psrepueAS XASS WUOA SUL 


‘spunos oYSsS-eUO 
JOJ pesn eq OSTE PTNOS ANq Seqou UOTIeIMp-STAeTAeA 10J TnJesn ATAsow ee 
SEdOTSAUT “ULIOJEARM EY EQeTNpow OF SdoTeAUSe Ue E10RS OSTe ued XASB WUOA VW 


‘ej0u eyuq UTeAsNS oq A1esseseu se Huo, se 

poqyesz8}7T ST wicozenem ,Jeede1,, © UeyQ ‘QuUeTSUeI3 dnqueqs Areraqtque ue 

Set Tddns wiojeaem ,30YS-eU0,, TeuoTAdoO uy ‘ej7e41 eVep yOeQheTd eyA HuTTeos 
pue WIOJS@ARM S,EAeROO YSeSOTO eYyA Huy oe Tes Aq youTd e wiojzied 03 

ST WUeQUT eu, ‘esodund sTuR 10J SeAezOO Jo ehuer & OAC OAROO Jed 

uLioyenaem e Atddns ued XASE WYOT SUA JO 10}VeO19 SUT ,,°e}0U,, yore AeTd 03 
epnjzt{aue pue ’uotTAemp ‘youtd Aq pezTuejeuresed oq [ITM eq WIoJeAem 
(peztseyquAs-eid 10) poTdures e 0109S 02 ST eept SYA ‘SquUeUMAQSUT TeOTSTU 40g 


-eqe1 eQep »xoeghe Td pue epnqttdme ey eqertnpow 10 Asnf{pe 
Atreuot3do ueo ue.zboid quetdfoe.1 eu, ‘epnyyttdue pue ees yoeqheTd 
[euyUOU © UTA SeTdes ejep OTpNe Jo seyTies e SF puNos Joys-euo ¥ 


*punos 

(e30u-eu0) © se QUeUM.QSUT Ue 10 QUeUMIQSUT (oReEDOeIS) Ee Se puNOS 
qous-euo e Aetd 03 Aseoe AF serjeuw Wyo JO put» cures ey UF SpuMos jo 
spuTy yQ0q HuT103g °,,seqou,, sheTd Qey QueumAqSUT TeOoTSM peTdues e se 
JO punos peTdires 2oys-euo e se :xASG@ WOT esn 03 Shem OM Ore OUST] 


puno.2bjoeg 


(‘seTtga yew10g eHueqozeqUT 403 psepuejs Se jal 

Wa, 88S) “XAS@ dOYd © UT weyR Huz3qnd Aq XASB SWYOI 3° ISIT & ASAO 
pezeys eq Aeu setziedoid eseyq jo Auy ‘xumYo AGOd SY4R e10jeq szeedde 
tre srw HAV, Pue ’ (2), 4 SAWN, Sumy AQ1edo1d Teuofydo Aue pue 
wdHA, »' YGHA, ANY szepeey pestnbe.z eqQ UT ssejeurested yoeqheTd se.103s 
4I 4° AGOG, 2Unqo Apoq euo uF ejep WioJoAeM SYR TTS Se409S XASB WHOA 


SINNHD ALWAdOdd GNV VWIWd CavGNVLS 


‘our ‘seqnduoD eTddy jo »reuspesq e st [uy] eqT-4MoEW 
‘squy OFU0AQ0eTY_ JO yremepesq e st [uy] szay OTU0A}OeTY 
‘our ‘eSTuy-e10pomMoD JO xreUSpet} e ST [my] ebyuy 


‘SOLTJ JaI [Te 4103 suoy UeAUCD 
GHuTA[TzepuN SuQ SeqTtosep SETTA WeULI0, EhuerosSqUl 403 prepuejs Se AI Way 


*UOTS.IOA JER UTA 
STQTIeaMOSUT ST E.M}ONAS MEU SUT, ‘“AUCUMSOP STUR JO UOTSIEA FH TesSodoid 
qJerp ey SoUTS pebueyD sey JepeeyH_eoTOA EaNjoONAAS YCHA EUL ‘uUoTANeD 


‘UNATAOHbTe uoTSseidilod eITep-ToOoeuogT |, Teuoftydo eyy 
SUTETAGXS UCTIOeS ,,UOCTSSe1dOD eIT[eq TFoOoeuCgT gy, SUL -mewbepTp xoq eTduexe 
ue Se UCTIOeS ,,STGUeEXY XASS8,, SGI UF pue uoTsseidxe szetnBei e se uot OES 
yOOUsStejzoy #OTNG, SUR UT pezfzeumms st xequAS XASG SUL *“SPUSETOTJZJS0O 
SOTIES JeTMoq 10 smoquco Aouenbe.zz e ploy 02 ‘eTduexe oJ ‘4eReT 
poppe eq ued specu emanjy 40 eVeATAd 103 sxUMYS pezTTefoeds ~sjunyo 
yPtepuezs, eG} Gre eSoU 4° ASTY, PUe WIV, Suu edoteaue Teuot3do 
pue ,,’X00d, Aunyo ejzep peatnbe1 eu , “ONNW, AUNYS ejZep UoTJejoOUUe 
Teuoyjdo eu ,,’HINV, s2ouqne ,,’ (0), U6TAzAdoo ,,’AWWN, Sureu soetjuedoid 
Teuof do ,,dHA, 2epeey punos Ajuedoid peipnbei ey SeUTJep UOTIOSES JxeU SU] 


"BAEROO JOd ULIOJOAEM ,,QeEde1,, GUO PUL ULIOJSAEM ,,}JOYS-OUO,, SUO 

puokeq of prnod POI SOTOA e.mgng yw ‘eae OO sed XASE SWYOT S410ul 40 EUO 
HuyuTe_RU0S ISTIT e se SOTOA Tesouedb S1oUl S GAOIS PTNOD NOX “SeAejOO [Te AoJZ 
ejzenbepe st edoTeAue eUuO pue “ETNA OZTS OM}Z-JO-10}0EJ E MOTTOJ SEAe Iso 
QUEIBJJTP GUY AOJ SULIOJOARM EUW ‘QUETOTJJNS ST SAeIOO st]Ed ULIOJSAEA 

GUO UOTUA UT ‘SeOTOA TeoTsnul eTduTs ATeATWZeTS1 40J poseeb st XASE WHOA 


‘SUOTIETNpow 48zTTZ pue 
‘Kouenbexjy ‘epnyttdue e109S OSTe PTNOCO WYOT SOFOA Sungnz y ‘SejOU TeoOTSnu 
YOFAUS 0f ,,MoAUOS epnyzTidue, 4o ,edoTeAue, ue E1098 Ue XASB WAOd 


*sq[nse. 

eze.noce 103 pepeeu st eTdures Huot e e1]eym ‘Huytsz3s pexjontd e se yons 
‘eToAD 03 eToAD wWouy seHueyo UWLIoJSAeM SSOYM WQUSUMARSUT ue ACJ TeoTqoesd 
SSET ST XASE WNOd °2OedIIOD ST UOCTReQUeSe1det STUR ‘SjUcUMIZsUT AUeU 
4Oq *‘uUSUMAQSUT OTASNoOoe Ue Wor peTdues 40 peztseuqudseid eq ueo 
STeUHTS pep100e.1 OMA ESSYL ‘Wiojzenem QueTsuesy dn-qieqs e Aq pepsosid 
AtpTeuotado unozeAem HuTjeedet © pAcoei ueS XASB WHOA “SucUMAASUT 407 


‘uIsq} USeNQeq ZIEAUOS pue edAR POT JUSseJJTp e UF eVep UOTINTOSEeA 
-JeySTYy S109S 02 ETqeuosee1: ST AI “LZT YSnomy gzT- ebues ey O7UT 
eTdures yore eTeOS 02 ssed puooss e pue SENTeA UMUITXeW pue UNUTUTU 

UR PUTJ 02 eRep STW 4eAO ssed suo seatnbe.1 Ssz7q g 03 UMOp eTdureS 
uoT{NTOse1-yHty e Hupyzseauco Ats]edo1ag * (SI7qQ 9T 40 ZT AtveotdA3) setdures 
UOTANToOse.1-seyHTY 103 pepeou eq TITM (om} 40) QemMI0J eJep seTTUTS V 


*TSAST SUMTOA e pue seTdues ATq-IUHTS se107s YASS WHOA W ‘“OTze4 
@STOU-0}-TeEUHTS [Te1eAo pooh 10z To1QUOD eumToA e Aq pajzenueyjze seTdues 
3Tq-3UuTe sesn WeYA erempsey yOeGKeTd 4z0j poubtsep ST Feulioy XASE SUL 


‘QueuMAqSUT TeOTSnul 

e (Sufpreos wo utd pue uot yAede1 qyTA) AO puMos JoYysS-euUo © Sq UPD SOTOA VY 
‘seTdues 3Tq-WUHTS Jo Huy ASTSuoo eoTOA oTpne petdues ATTeWTHtp 

e Hututequoo (euo jo qued e 410 S[TJ JaAI ue oq ued YOTYM) ,WAOI, 

AO ,UOT}OSS eRep, JAI ue SF XASB UV “yXASG, WHOA SASACD UOT{OSS STUL 


poydopy :snqeIs 
Sqly OTUCA_OSeTA ‘uosTzs0q Aer pue sefey eA0jS WOLF 
Se6T ‘4 Anenaqey  :07eG¢ 


SOFOA petdues 3TG-8 AAI yXASOn 


B - 63 


*“sEqUNU EPooS UcTSSedICS ST 03 
UOTSSeIdMODS AES pue xUNT Z7G0g SQ UT eIEp pesseiduoo eYyQ e109S ‘70 
spunos [eubyts pesseidmocep eyR JI ‘uoTSSe1du0S eIep UATA QuUeUT4SEdxy 


*QUeUMIQSUT [eOTSTM e se pesn eq OSTe UeS eQep SIQ 

‘kt sedoid prety eToAoTH-egseTdires eyQ Aes NOA JI “TEAST SUMTOA peiTsep Seu 

qe »peqheltd [TTA punos eqQ OS SUMTOA EUW SES “Z4ZT WOnosuwy gzT- ebues Suzy [dues 
TInz eyQ 02 EpnzyTdue TeubTs e4A eTeOS “T = EAeIOORO pue ‘eer HuyTdues 

= oegiegsetdues ‘9 = eToApTHJAegseTdies ‘0 = soldiregTHQeede. ‘seTdies 

jo sequmu = seTduresTHRoYseuo 36S “XASG WNOd & UF puNos AoYS-sUO e B10AS OL 


punog oys-eup e HuTpi0cc]ey 


*(moTeq ‘asTa pue 

WLW ees) edoTeaue xoeqKetd e Aq sdeysed pue ,To.sQU0SD sumtoa,, e Aq 

entea stu3 ATdt3 rn prnoys wes6o1d xoeqhetd euy, *TeAST pouTsep eyQ 02 
yoeqhetd uo peqyenueqqe eq pue ofQe1 ESTOU-0j-TeUbTS pooh s0J “ZZT Ynomwy 
@ZT- ehuer [InNJ eq} esn soTdures eREp 3TqQ-QUHTe EUR SReT AI * (SeAeIOO TTe) 
SULIOJOACM SYA AOJ GUMTOA AOeEQMeTd TTeszeAo ue SEATH SUMT[OA PTSTJ SU], 


*3Tun © se pesse.1dn0>S ST seTdires eVeEp Jo seTues ETOUM 

eu 7eUQ SION (*QUEUMocOP STUR JO pus eUQ 3e peqT4osep ST eITeqqTAdIHs 
eusyuos HuTpooue eATep-ToOoeuogyy eu) ‘peAetd eq ued punos et e10jeq 
e3ep XG0d EqI 03 petTidde eq Asm uNATACHTe ucTsseidmocep HuTYyoJeu eq 
‘@SANOD JO “CACTE PEUTJEP SONTEA eEYW JO OUO UTeWUOS PTNoYs pTefs STuL 
"yuNY XGOd SUI UT pesos seTdires eQeEp JO JES E1TQUS SYA 07 peTidde sea 
qeuy ‘Aue JT ‘SuIOS UCTSSe1dNOS SY SOREOTPUT UoTSSe.dNODS PTSTJ SUL 


*SOARIOO GYR JO QNoAeT SYA 103 ‘MOTEq °,AGO AUN eReG,, CBS “xUMTD AGO 
@U} UT peioJs ere eVEp JO SeAeIOO MOY STT©} GARDNRO PTSTJ SUL 


“yoqTd TeoTsnm yore 103 o7e1 

yoeqhetd © QoeTes pue cegegserdues e1oubT PrTNom JQucUMAQSUT [eOTSM e se 
XAS8 Wao & SkeTd yeu wesfoud yw ‘oJeAqTA pue spueq yo Td easTy~oe 

03 Atpteotueudp ay Area 10 sqztys Aouenbe.1y eaeTyoe 02 sTuQ Asnfpe 

Aew wessoid y ‘ees Huy Tdwes punos euq seatTh cesiegse[dues pletj Sul 


(-yBfy 40 MOT 003 eAeRQDO Ue pekeTd eq asnf 

TIT QucUMAAZSUT SY} ‘OMZ.JO 1070"3 © Aq QuestezzTp ST eTOADTHJegseTdues 37) 
‘Huy Oey ANouUATA OMA JO seMod szeTNOTIUed e st eTOADTHJegseTdues cumsse USEAS 
Aew ASuy, ‘Ouny ut Queumsaqsuy [eotsnu e se xASE WNOd euQ AeTd 02 szepi0 UT 
om j3O tenod e& eq 03 SToADTHJegseTdues eipnbe.x SueAyTip OTsrm ebyuly culos 


(- ,2PTTO, &@ Gata eTOAD Aouenbe.y -s19eqfTYq 

e@ se 3no auod prnom e[oA> TeTIWed © ‘peqeede1 ST WuoJeAeM Qeedei1 SY UST) 
‘setoAo jo sequmu seGequt ue preTA prnoys eToADTHA egseTdues/seTdirestTHjeedet 
UOTSTATp sul ‘eTOADTHAegseTdues uT qed Qeede1 euQ jo 

@10A0/setdmes eyq e109S ‘spueq youtTd suTequoo qued AoYs-eUuo eA JI 
*@[0A0/setdures Jo tzequmu ebezeae ue st eToADTHegseTdues ‘ATT en oy 


*woqtTd yxoeqhetd 

peiTsep © 10J eWe1 eIep eq EQNdOSD OF pepeou ST enTeA eToOADTHegselTdues 
eur, ‘eToAo/setdues Aueul se SOTA suTeQUOS eve {OO (AoUeNbe.1j zeM0T) 
@ATSSEOONS Woe’ ° ,,UMOLOIUN,, AOJ 0 SSTS Ao “eReEp jo eaeqDO0 Aouenbe.zz yseupty 
em UT e[oA0/serdues jo szequmu ey STISe3 eTOADTHegseTdies pet SUL 


"043 JO sxzeKod eq 02 SOZTSs e[diles [Te 


expnbe.r seotAep yndgno eyo eulog «seq e60RTe XASB SWYOA PPO @10ubT 10 
"@ALIOO YSEMOT PSZTS-ppo ue S10UHT ‘ULIOJOAEM PEZTS-ppo ue 43snfpe 03 eaey 
PINOM ezeMQjoS JEATIp punos ehyuy ‘seTdues Jo SieqimMU UBAS SAEY sz.1ed 
yeedet pue JOYS-eUuo [Te WeUA se1zfNbe1 exzeMpszeq punos S,2eqndn0o eftuy 
SUI, “SUOCTIERTUTT Sey oremqjos pue ereMpsey gndqno oTpne 3soW 


e1eMQjog pue erempszeq WNdyNO OTpNy JO SUOTIeRTUTT 


*SeAe}D0 TTe sso.1oe Aqdme eq ued sized om} eseqR JO SUD ‘sized Qeede1 
pue 20NS-eUO0 S3T WQ0q UT seTdmes eJep Auew Se GOTMQ SUTEUCS GALIOO 


‘a’ aaI STTZ SO.MOS eT UT pue QUeUMSOp JAI UyeU ey UT PeUuTsep 
ose 5 © ST GIexeN * (pzom 4TqQ-9T sed omQ) pexoed-eqhq ere SPISTS ALAAN 
SUL ‘UMOUS Jepio eG} UT PELTS Gre SPISOTA ‘:sTTe_ep uoT Ee WueweT[ dN] 


‘aepeeqgeoton { 
/» ‘e6uer ofueutp s,erenpzey » 
qndqno eq} oqUT enTeA sTuy dey * (GUMTOA , 
TInz) Agtun 03 9 woaz eumtoa »peqketd y/ SSUMTOA POXT A 
/+ pesn enbjzuyoe, uoTSseiduoo ejep »/ /uoy;Ssseidogs 
/~ SWAOJOACM JO SOALIOO # »/ 
/» e7e2 GuyTdmes ejep ,/ ‘oegsegsetdues quoMn 
/* 0 @STS ‘eaeQoo UHTYy ut ETOAD/seTdues # y/ ‘eToAoTH2egsetdues 
/» Wed yeode1 evej00 YHTY Uy seTdues # x/ ‘seTdmestTHjeede. 
/» qed Aoys-T eneQoo USTY UT seTdues # y/ ‘SeTdesTHRCYSeUO ONOTN 
} 30n13s jopedsy 


/-~ *OINANZ EGR UT Spuy» Gucu eq UeD ,/ 


/s (0 xfpueddy) Buppooue ejTep-TooeucdT” »/ T veareqqradips euTzep# 
/+ pesseidmoS jou ,/ 0 SUONGIS SUTJEPH 


/» ‘setdures eq 03 pettdde umazuchte , 
UOTSSEIGIOD JO SOTOUD sUOTSSe1dMODS ,/ 
/~ SUMTOA uTMTTXe = O°T pexta = AQTun ;/ 10000Txo Aatun euTzep# 
/= *SMAQESSO ‘OT ’SUROTZ JO sOquMU e ST pexTa W "3UHT4 EUR OF » 
QT pue juTod eq3 zo IST EG 02 S3TQ QT ‘ONnTeA QuTod-pexT;s Ww +/ 
/pexTy SNOT zepedAR 
(a, 4, ‘sHy °sA,)QTOMEN BCHAI SUTJOPH 
1X “aA “sSe °s8.) CIOIEN XASE GI SUTIEPH 
(- SULIOJOAPA 
eseq3 jo ynokey, efe.109s ey} 403 ‘MOTE ,,’XGOd MY e3eq, Ses) “UNTO 
KGOd SUR UT SULIOJOAEM peTdues SYA A0J szejcueted »xoeqheTd euq sproy 
@.MION.QS STU “UCTZeRUGUMOOP HUTAOTIOJ EUA UF pue SuCTIeseTOSp D SSeqy UT 
peuTyep se emjon.n4s szepecH_eoTOA © SPTOW , NCHA, AQzedoid pezpnbe. eyL 


‘ULIOJOACM Qeodet pue OUS-SUO 
joes UT seTdues Jo sequmu UeAS Ue serTbei erempsey punos ehyuy eq 


B - 64 


*yunyo yyuet-ppo Aue szeqze e7Aq ped 0 & S109s 03 sEquEUSYy 


/~ ‘Suoftzejouue 4xXeQ Ss, ,soyuRjNe ‘[]yyHD & suTeQUOCS UNTO ONNY s/ 
(,0. ’.N. ‘.N. ‘.W,)CIOXEW ONNW CI SUuTzep# 


/~ ‘@meu s,z0uqne eu ’[]YyVHD & SuTeqQUOS >»uNUD Hin +/ 
(.H, ‘sD. °sf, ‘.W,JGI@IeN HINWY GI euTzZepH 


/~= *S07}0U WUGTAAdoo s,WuOT eUQ ‘[]YvHD e SuTeQUOD yum ,, (9), */ 
(, a ‘als (49 °4) J QIONEN JUBTAAdoD GI euTzepy 


/» “emreu S,SOTOA eUQ ‘[]YvHD © SUTeQUOS >UNUS ZWWN +/ 
(a, ‘sW. ‘.W. ‘.N,JGI@IEN ANWN CI SUTzJOpH 


*SAeOeIeYO JO WUMOS Sl SPTOY PISETZ SZTSHO s,xuMYO eur (*WeULI0g 

Sltq shueyosequl sity OfueAOSTY SS JaI Wa, UT ,Setqsedoisg Huyuys 

pue ‘syunyp BuTa3g ‘sbut4z35,, seg) ‘“xuMNUO ,LXaL, Praepueqs e extr ysnf 
‘(aL xey ‘OPTTI) 4.4 Wnomwy (oz xey ‘ds) , , Hues eyR uF s1zejOereYO 
IIOSW 379-3uBte jo Aerze ue SuTe UCD SyxUMYS EeSeyA Jo yore ‘ATTeOTIOe WAS 


"XAS8 SWHOA JO ISIT © AAO poreys eq Jouueo AsyR 
sueow JeUL “XASG dOYd © UT HuoTeq Jou op sxuMUS ONNW ‘SeTedoad jou 
ere ABY SOUTS *FTUTT TeoT}Qoead e& SF LOLZE YNq ‘SASROCALYO T - TE¥sZ 

02 dn yy6ueT Aue sxunyo ONNY OXeul URS NOX *XASG WHOA © UF eUO UeTA 
@iow and ued noA os ‘xno Aqusdoid e Jou St »uUMUO ONNYW Uy ‘“4ougQne eu Aq 
uT pedkQ suofzejouue 3xeq Aue sploy ,ONNW, %AUNYS ejep TeuoT do seUr 


“XAS8 SWHHOd JO ISIT © ACAO Wey SreYS O02 XASE dOUd e& UT seedde ueo set j4edo1g 
"S4e{OeIeEYS 9GZ Ue 4ej40YS eq prnoys Az1edoud y “SqUMO0S AWYN 3SET 

eo 3asn¢ *‘AuUepunpe. st WOT e ut Aquedoud (4eyj0 40) GWYN SUC UeYQ e.10U 
Buyzang *sopmyo AQuedoid eze ,HINW, Ppue .’ (5), 4’ ANWN, SedA xunyo sur 


* ,AOQRVO19,, AO 
w2OGqne,, S,IUSUM.AQSUT EUQ JO SUTeU ETQA SpPTOY ,HINv, Aqsedoad [Teuot Ado eur 


* ySyty OFUes}0eTT 986T (5), 

sues Sty OTU01QOSTA 986T,, Supupequoo »umyo ,, (9), © ‘eTduexe 

Joq , £(, Ssaeqoeseyo Quptatdoo euy se soases , (9), GI uNuo eu 
“@OTFOA SUA ACJ SOTROU AUHT4AdOO e sptoy , (9), AQiedoad [Teuotqdo eu, 


a w> LTSQ 
Je[nqnz,, GOUEASUT 4OJ ‘SOTOA SYA SoureU ,AWWN, Aqtedoid ~euotqdo suzy 


*UOTQCULIOJUT 
Arej[youe deey 02 XASB WHOA © UF pepntTouT eq Aew sopmyo 4xeQ Te41EAeS 


ONNY ‘Hin ’(2) ‘aWWN SofnqD qxey TeuoT{do 


*SOeAel eQep JO ETqey peuTULIeZepeid e esn ued noA ‘omQ Jo szeKM0d e& 03 
eToAoTHegsetdues 20T34Se1 noA JI ‘eaej{0o seUHTYy yxoU SYA se seltdures Aueu se 
SOTMA SAeY OQ eVep JO EAeQDO YORS Soutnbe. y~sg AuM ST WeYUL ‘“SeAe {DO TTe 

UT SOEJOU [Te yore. OF seqeir eRVep ZT jo STqeq eTbuts e sesn JSATIp e YONS 
*JBATAP punos eTduTs © 2103 pexzeed ST XASG WUOA ‘SQUCUMAQSUT [eOTSMU 407 


-eIep STAeTTeAe eg} wojzz eQeToduseqUy 40 Se QeUITOep 
ueo noX ‘eaR{00 {UGTA eu EAeY 3, USeOP XASS WHOA SU JI * (ETeEOS SUCR-7T & 
Suyumsse) seqe1s Sut {dues ZT JO GUO puke BAE{OO UB FOOTES OF ST eOpT SUL 


-eaeq00 Aouenbe.zy 3seqHtTy eqQ 40j 
eTosaTHwegsetamesr/cs = Aouenbe.z 


: (zy uy) Aouenbe.1y pertsep eq3 eaeTyoe 03 pucces/seTdires s eje1 
eqzep yoegke[d © AQOeTeS ‘SsuMTOA ejOU pertsep e Aq pue ’edoTeaue ue Aq 
ostTe sdeysed ‘eumjtoa Aq TeubyTs ey SeTeoS ‘ejoU SYA UTeASNS O73 pepeaU 

se BuoT se wiojyeaem Weeds. ey uo SeTOAD USTA WIOJEARM JOYS-eUOo eyR 
Ketd ‘SlqeTyeae esoyyA wWorzz eAeEp JO SAEIOO YSeieSU BQ AOETSS 4SATZ. 
"XAS8 WuOg Aue Sutsn ejou Teotsnu e AeTd oj, 


OJON TeOTsnW e HutAetTg 


(-moteq ‘qsTa pue wvIv eS) °003 ‘edoTeaue ue no 

Ketd ues nox ‘eumToA pue eer xoeqheTd eyy Asnfpe Aew noA ‘es.moo 30 
-cegiegseTdmes Jo eer eqep e Qe ‘oumToA Aq peTeos ‘seTdires jYeedei exy 
usuQ seTdires Aoys-euo eu AeTg (‘uoTAnTOSe1 Asejee15 sy sey EAP IDO 
Kouenbe.1j-ASeMOT SUL) °“T < GAeROOIO JF GAEIOO Ue VOOTSS YsuftzZ ‘punos 
oys-euo © se eqep xAse WuOd Aue Aetd of 


punosg joys-eup & BuyAeTd 


‘ceguegsetTames uo spuedep sefeTd Qoys-euo e pue 
‘erofoTHAegseTdmes uo spuedep szeXeTd Qucumsqsuyt ue ‘JOABMOH ‘SABA SOTA pue 
,queUN.QSUT TeoTsnm, e se peXetd oq Xew ,punos joys-euo,, © Jey, SION 


*SOABIOO TTe sSo.0e serdures-jeede.1 : solTdires-joys-eUuo oTJe1 ETA ezTTenbe 
03 etqe eq Aew nox (‘out Q4e3S S,puMoS eYW UO JoedNy [euyTUTU SAC TTTA 
STuL) ‘sotez Buppuedeid 10 eToAo HuTjeede1 Sy JO suofjeot{tde.1 Sutppuedde 
Aq 3%ed Ao0yS-euo $,eAe}00 ue uet{Huel ‘ejesuedtOD OF “seAe}SO 4OJ ETNA 
OMQ-JO-410}0eJ SYQ MOT[OJ SULIOJOAEM Jeodei pue JOYS-eUo SYA SrxeU OF prey 

37 putz Aew nok ‘seaej00 QuezesjTp ye QueuMAQSUT OTAsNooe Ue eTdues NOA JI 


“SOAB}OO JEMOT EQNdUIOS 02 eVeTOdIeQUT “SeAeRQo0 4SEUoTY 
eynduom 03 (SuTse31TJ UATA eTdues-umop) szeuoeq ‘Aouenbe.1z suo ysnf 
qe QUeUM.QSUT OTASNOSe Ue p100e41 XASG WHO JO SAojeeso ‘AT TeoTdAL 


-AemAue 37 AxQ quoOtw. noA Qnq ‘sjucumsqsuy [eoTsmM 403 

PpepUsUMIoeA WOU ST eATECATAGMOS SxTT sz0sseiduoo Huyonpo.4uy-uoTz10ASTp W 
*-punoS 30YqS-euo e 

se pesn eq osTe ues eqep eyy ‘ATsedoid prety cesuegsetdues ey jos nod 3] 


‘eumToa »oegqkeTd Queumsqsut eq Asnf{pe 02 GUMTOA eS pue efues Sut{dues [nz 


ue 3cL190xe ‘eEp pepiocei SYR WOA_ *“SEAEROO JO QUMNOD SYR 02 SEAEID0RO 3S 
-yoeqhkeTd 4103 ETqeTTeAe erxeu 02 QUeM NOA se ejep Jo seaejoo Aueu se 
eztseqquds 40 pi0ce1 3SATJ “XASG WNOd © UF QUSUMAQSUT TeOTSMM & S1i0j7S OL 


QueumiQsUur TeoTsnW e SuTpsccSey 


*ULIOJOAEM OQ SReIOUeHe1 pue S_UETOTJJO0D SyQ AJTpou pTnos SeoTOA peztTserujuUAs 
JO puTH STYR AOJ 40ATpe uy ‘wuioyeaem HurQeeder e A0J SQUETOTJJEOO sSeTues 
Jetanogz HuytufFequos yuMNYyO TeuoTAdo ue suTjep Aeuw ew ‘Ounqgnj eu UL :eNss] 


-e7fq ped 9 & YATA xUMYD ZG0q WWHueT-ppo ue MOCTTOJ 03 Gms og 

*eQep pesse.iduocep euy 03 seTTdde 

squed qeode1 pue ’SeAe}00 ‘’SeZTS eTdes Anoge JjnAS STU TIW °‘uoTROUNyZ 
Jasseidiocsp petjyToeds eyq ybnosuy pesy 07 seqihq eqep jo Aerie ue 

qsnf sft xunYyo Add ey ‘euONdINS - UocTsseiduloDS PTeTJ ACHA UF JI 
*qued qeede1 eu jo HbutuutTGbeq ey Oo jUT 

ATyRoous MOTF ptnoys jszed yeede.1 ey jo pue ey pue ‘jued jeede1 om 
oqut A[TYyQOous MOTJ PTNous Aued Aoys-euo syQ ‘’enTeA eTdwes [Teus 

e yaya upbeq prnoys qued Aoys-euo eyy ’,SHOFTO, yoeqheTd pfoae oF 


(setduresTHjeede.s + soTdmesTHROYyseuc) » Z+°°* + 2Z) 
(T-eAe300399) 0 


S}¥ uNyO XGOd S43 UT SeTdires Jo sequMU EU 
* (sotdiegTHeedet + soTduresTHROYSeUC) » T-OAeIN0I0Z 
:seTdues AsSou ey UATA ASeT 
seuoo eAejoo Aouenbeiy AseMotT euT, *~SeTOAD Jo uequmu sures BI 4Nq SAP {D0 
Jeupbty yxeu ey se sotdues Aueul se SOTMQ SUTEIUOD EARQOO GATSSEOoONS Yyorey” 
*soTdmesTHeeder + selduesTHOYSeUO 


:seTdures ysomezy euQ Burstudmoo ‘ASAT SaWIOD SAeIOO 
Aouenbeijy yseuHty euy -eqep JO SeAeQOO BAeIQDOIO sey AGOd SM ’Teseued uy 


*suOTRu0d qeede1t pue OUS-eUuO ele 
@AEIOO YOre uUTUQTM “eAeQoO Aq pedno. serdures ejep suyequoo 7qGOg SUL 


/+ ‘seTdmes ejep ofpne jo Aessze ’[(]aixg © supequoo xuny> XGOd +/ 

/s *L7T Ynoszywy EZT- ‘szequnu peubts 31q E y/ ‘LKQ szeq0ereyo jyepedA3 
(1X. °s0, °.0. °.,)QISEW AGOM AI SUTJOPH 

*soidues elep ofpne eqy suTeqUOo yUNY AGOd SUL 


*suejeuered ujdep pue eje1 UTA 

sjuemfes se pelojS Eq UBD SUOTIETTTOSO Sul, ‘Sjueubes seeUT[ UT pepooue eq 
ued SNORUOD SUT, “SUOTIETNpou eset spooue oj} sxuNYO TeuoT Ado SuTjep 

Keu em ‘o.mjnj eu ur * (PFISeT) UOCTIeTTTOSO HBuyseq_Tyz pue *’ (oZesqTA) 
ucTIeTTTOsSO Aouenbe.zy ’ (oTouwe13) UCTIeTTTOSO epnyTidue ’ (yem-yem) «anojUOS 
BupszeqtTZ. ’(pueq yo3td) anoquoo Acuenbe.iz epzaoid osTe suez;seyquAg ‘enss] 


*QUTOaNT uoTZenp-o e uqQTA Aeswre syy 
ejeutTuie3 Aew uesHoid yoeqheTd euy ‘Wwa UI ° (3UTOgDg)zOezTs / ezTSIO 
SIT ST UNO gSTY 40 NvIv ue UT sQqUTOd)” jo scequmu eYyy - 8 0N 


*SUMTOA 8R0U peitTsep Aue Aq pue SUMTOA 
Jepeey SOTOA TeuTuou eq Aq uoTjOuNJ edoTeAue eyQ ATTAIN 02. sequeuDy 


*SqUTOgNT SyQ usemQeq sezeTodiequT 
Joze1eueS edoTeAue eUul, “UCTIOUNJ 4eeUTT[-esTMaoeTd © st edoTeAue eu 


*NOAZUOO SSCETO.I EY UeTQ J1OZ1OYS ST ER0U SI JT W1OYS YN eq pTNo"s 
JNoAuos yoeQWe Seu * (SUCTZEIMpP ,SQUTOADT ASTY SY JO ums eT) -mojuCD 
SSeSTSt SIT JO UOFZemp T[eIOR SYA SnuTU eu; doAs SoU peitTsep eTR 

qe eseeTe.: ey ufhegq °-mojuU0o ASTY eq YyHnouyy des ue pue ’ (Asep 
S,UTODA WWIW ASST OUR) TeAeT UTe {SNS ETA We PTOY ‘mo quUOCS DVIV eu 
Whnosyg deys ‘SUMTOA Oo We Q7eIS ‘wWUQT4OHTe uot eE1eUeb-edoTeAuSe ey jo 
AOTAIOAO Ue ST O1ey ‘SHUNYO ASTY pue Nvlv euy Jo Suyuecu eyy utetdxe oy 


/= ‘ASpeeyYEecton SQ UT peTsTOods GUMTOA TeUTUIOU SYR STeOS OF x 
posn ST 3I ‘sentea pextTy Suyusanje1 suzy Jo uot QounZ 
© SeUTJEp SEdoTeAUS SYL, ‘SedoTSeAUe «zeeUTT-SeSTAMSCeTd , 

*[]qupogoq ue upequoo sxumyo gaSTY pue WIV +/ 


Squyoand { 

/-= A0jOeJ GUMTOA UOT ZeUTASep y/ ‘4sep pexta 

/e 0 < ‘SpuUOCOeSTITTU UT UCTZeIMp jueUHes y/ ‘/UCTZe-MpP CXOMN 
} Aona3s jzepedAA 


(4. 'sSs 'sTs 's 8, )ACIONEN ASTX AI SuTzep# 
(4. /aWe “se °sW,) CIOXEN NWIW GI eutsep# 


*seyjoue eANATASQns u0 edoTeAUe 
petiddns eq3 exscuby Aeu suresHoud yxoeqheTg ‘suot {emp STqeypszea jo sajou 
Teotsnu HutAetd sz03 tnzesn AT Tepfoedse st Ar *xOeqAeTd Huy-mp punos ey 

©AeTNpou oF pesn eq Aew .n0Quoo sTUL ,°4ANo UCD epnyzTt{due, Ao ,edoTedus,, 
JeouyT{-esTaeoeytd e eaThH szeyje6oq gSTa pue WIV sxuNy eyep Teuotqdo euy 


aSTa pue yvIW sxunyD eqeg Teuosz {do 


B - 66 


/» ‘setdures ejep otpne jo Aerre ‘[]aLAG & SuTeqQUOD yUNYS G0 +/ 
/+ ‘L7T Wnoswy EzT- ‘szequmu peubts 31q g y/ ‘ALAA Aejoesreyo yopodAR 
(A, ‘sd. “.0, ‘,@,)GI@teW ACOA AI SuTZEpH 

/= A@pesY_eoTOA EUR UT peTsToOeds GUMTOA TeUTWOU SI ETeSS OF pesn , 


S,3I ‘sentea pexty HutTuanje.s suzy JO uoTAOUNJ e seuTjJep edolTeaue Sul ;/ 
/» ‘edoTeaue seeuT[-estMeocetd []Quyogog ue ufequoo sxuNYyo gSTY pue WLW »/ 


:quyoang { 

/= 4030eJ GUMTOA UOCTIeUTASep ,/ /4sep pexTg 

/+ 0 < ‘SpucoeSTTTTU UT UCTZeANp Queubes y/ ‘UOT ZeANp CYOMN 
} QOnz3s jepedAA 


(5, ‘sS. ‘.T, ‘sa, JAGIOPN ASTX AI euTzopH 
(4, ‘wy ‘ads ’.W,)GI@IEN AVIW GI SUTJEpH 

/» ‘SuofZejouue 3x03 S,40ouRne ’[]YWHD & SUTeQUOD AUNYS ONNV +/ 
(,0, ‘sN. ‘.N, °,W,)GI@1EN ONNW GI eUTzJep# 

/» ‘oureu S,a0y;ne ey ’[]YyWHD © SUTeqQUOD UNO HINW +/ 
(.H, ‘sl, ‘Ay ’.W,) GION HINY GI euTzep# 

/+ ‘@0FR0U AYHTAAdoo s,WuOd euA ‘[]uWHD © SuTeqUOD >umyo ,, (9), ¥/ 
(au ‘as 12s %4) J aTOEN JUBTzAdoD GI euTJopH 

/» ‘eureu S,20T0A euQ ‘[]YWHD & SUTeQUOCD >UNYO AWWN »/ 
(a, ‘se ‘sW, ‘.N,)GIOXEN SNWN GI SUTZepH. 


‘@mynj ey UT XASE WAOI /AEpeayEed}on { 
e epTsuy seedde Aeu syumyo JO spuy# Meu ‘esanoo Jo puy ‘xUNYyS AGOd Sua /» ‘ebuet opureulp S,oreMpsey , 
epeceid 02 SAeY 4,U0P ASTY pue ‘WLW ‘ONNW S27 eVep TeuoT Ado ey], ‘xuNYO qndqno ey ojUy enTeA sTyA dew * (eUMTOA , 
aod ey epeceid {Te AeuA se Huot se szepuo Aue ut seedde ATTenjoe Aew HINW Tinz) Arun 03 O wWoaz eumtoa yoeqhketd ,/ ‘OUMTOA PexT a 
pue ‘3upT41AdoD ‘aWWN ‘YCHA SyuNUS Aquedoud eu, *se,eoTpuy uoTsseidxe uetnbes /~= pesn enbyzuyoe3 uotTsseiduoo e ep ,/ /UOFSSE1AGUO)S 
STUQ Se OF13S Se Jou ST XASE WUOd & UT SxUNYS Jo sepso ey ‘ATTeNIOY | [= SWLOJEACM JO SOACIOO # y/ *@ACI9070 ALAN 
/» eyes Huttdues eqep ,/ /oeguegsetTdwes Gyomn 
-,(0), se /+ 0 SSTe ‘eae {oO UbTY Uy eTOAO/seTdues # ,/ Se [OADTHASgsSeT dures 
uMoYs ST e3fq ped pepecu-seuyjoulos y ‘SUOTIeOTTde1 Soul 10 9 SUeSU ,,,,, pue /» 34ed Yeede1r evejoo YHTY eYyR UT SeTdues # ,/ ‘seTduesTHeede 
‘Teuoytqdo ere [sue zt 3ex70e1q exenbs) ’,,sejonb,, uy UMOYS ere SUIEIF Te4SRTT /+ Wed R0YS-T SAeQDO UHTY SYA UT SeTdues # ,/ ‘SeTdueSTHIOYUSeUO ONOTN 
* (aepeeygeotoa) Joozys Tenbe prnoys ,#,, S,YGHA e& ‘eTdurexe 10g *sejAq ejep } Wona3s jepedAy 
{peoeiq} BuyMo[[oOJ eyA JO UNOS ONOT SZTSIO e squeseide. ,#,, UEHOQ SU], 
/+ *@INANJ OYA UT SpuT? S10ul eq UeD y/ 
fo) { ¥aLxa Ht WYO, =! xq0d /+ (2 xtpueddy) Huppooue eqTep-fooeuoqty x/ TT e31edqTaduns euTjep# 
{ squjoadod H+ .ISTay =: asTa /+ pesseiduioo jou y/ = 0 SUONGIDS SUTJePH 
{ squToado”d Ht WWI, =: WLW 
/+ seTames eyy 073 petidde upyqsuobrte uoTsseiduoo Jo SoToyD :uoTsseidu0Ds ,/ 
Co] { eaWHD }# ,ONNW, =: ONNW 
[o} { eavHD }t ,HINW, =: LAW /+ SAMOA uUNUTxXeW = O°T PoxTy = AQTuUNn s/ 10000Txo AQyUN SUTJopH 
Co) { vOWHD HH 4 (2), =32 FUBFAAdOD 
Co] { ¥aVHD }# WAAWN, =: AWN /+ “SUAIESSO *O°F ‘SIQITZ JO sequmU e ST , 
{ Jopespygeoton }# NCHA, =: GHA pexta w ‘34uHT4A ey OF 9T pue juTod eYyA jo , 


33°T SUR 02 SITQ OT ‘onTeA Quyod-pextzZ W s/ ‘pexty ONOT JopedAR 
{ xa0a [asta] Dwi) 


eONNW [Hinv] [346t4+Adop) [SWWN] UGHA .XASG, }+ WHOS, =": XAS8 (4, °sd. ’sH. ‘,A,)GI@ TEN YGHA GI SUTJEpH 
(.X, ‘sAs “sSs ‘,.8,)GI@XEN XASG CI SUTJOPH 


“eUO JO Raed JO OLTTS aaAT US OQ mene 
PInoo sty ‘xequts yasg wYuod eu jo Axeumms uoTsseidxe se[nbei & ST e104 suoyzfutjeg edhy 


Sewreerererwe2aweae@oeoee2 @e2oaeoa @ Se woeeweowenewoeeaeoee® 


uoTsseidxg setnbey xase SONATA MOINS 


B - 67 


{ 


} 

fu SNOT 

‘(Jasep ‘[Jeo.unos gid 
(Qsep ‘u ‘so.unos) xoeduNg PTOA 


!([t]eoznos ‘qsep ‘z - u ‘Zz + eo.4nos) xoedUNTG 


/» ‘setdures pepooue 3Tq-y (Z-u) yz Buystaduoo seqhq z-u Aq y 
PSMOTIOJ ‘ONTEA TeFATUT ATq-g ue ‘azAq ped e sey 4EzZzINq 
eoIMNog *4zezjjnq ysep e7Aq (Z-U) ¥Z OUT ABJJNq Sonos 

97Aq u wo4y eJeEp pepoosuUS eTep-TooeuogTy yoedun »/ 


{ 
‘ (x) umes 
{ 
/+ eTdes 93hq-T © 8103S ,/ ‘x = [t]3sep 
/+ ®319p pepocep eyy ut ppe y/ ‘(p]eaTedolepoo =+ x 
/+ STaqTu YBTYy ey 306 03 AZTUS y/ ‘y =<< P 
este 
/+ @TQQyU MOT BYR 305 03 Yseu ,/ [3x0 =9 P 
/+ ee TaqTu YBTY 40 MOT QoeTeS ;/ (T 9 ¥) 3T 
/* setTaqyu jo ured e 305 ,/ ‘[T << FJeomos = p 
/+ ‘®TQQyU MOT UeYR eTqqTU ySTY ‘eTQqyU ejep e epodeg 
(t¥++ ‘UTT >> F ‘0 = F) 403 
T >>>> U = BTT 


‘WT “F ONOT 
*P ALAG 
} 
‘x FLA 
‘u ONOT 
‘(]3sep ‘[{Jeosos arxq 
(x ‘Asep ‘u ’eo.mos)»xoedUNTG q0"s 


/~ °‘e 7ep EMA sse.iduocep ATTe{UGUAOUT OF SOUFQ [TeABACS QT TCO » 
ued noA OS X ONTLA eRep ASET SQ SUMO QI °X ONTLA yx 
eqep TeTayTUT ueATH ’szezznq Ysep e7Aq UyZ ORUT JSEzZzNq 

Sonos e7Aq U WO1Z eZep pepooue e[ep-ToOoeuodT, yxoeduny »/ 


'{1z’€T’8’S E'S 'T’0’T-'2- €-'S-8-ET-1Z-'ve-} = [oT] eITSaOLepoo ALA 
/~+ “e3ep punos 4103 Huyfpooue ejTep FooeucgTy” »/ 
‘eHenBue, SuyumresHoid 5 yA UF UEeIQT4A 4A0SseidlooSp Sq ST Sey 


‘UOTIAOYSTP [TesAOAO UMMTUTU 10z (GUTTA UF SpreMyoeq pue SpszeHio;) 

SONTCA SUA TTe AsN{pe pTNoys s0sseidm0S eA ‘suOoTAEUTXO1dde Sereu 

© sey 37 uUeUuM ‘pe jeUTXOoudde ere seq[Tep 4sebzelT ertya ATestooid pepooue 
exe seqrlep [Teus A1eAq ‘“Suequmu FooeUuCKdT, JO ETqey e& UT OENTeA ATFq-ANoZ 

pe10qs yore dn SHOOT uNQT4OHTe sTyQ ‘e Vel MOTS ETqeuosee1 e GABTIOSR OL 


*UOTI@IOSTP UITA JAF ESN ‘UOCTIIOASTp sulS 

SOONPOAQUT UOCTSSe.1dGUlOS TOM STU], “eNTeA TeTATUT eq 4203 pesyzeAoc e3Aq-onQR 
e snid eqep reupHt10 egy jo ezTs eyQ JTeY STF eqep pesseiduod SU], °SITq 
MN0j Sie © UT SITSP Yoee Sepooue ynq HuTpoouse eAlep [eUCTITpe.y SYA SATT 
STF 31 ‘enbTutpeg uoTsseidmoD punos eQlag FooeuogyTy ,Ssehey @ASIS ST STUL 


eHtuy-s10poumiog “ysTemM Aiteg 

SRY OTUOIQOETY ‘MEYS SASS 

Say OTUOAVOeTA ‘ste7xTY He19 

Syy OTUOIQOETA ‘uosTss0pq Ariel 
eBbTuly-e10poumoD “TeOTW ‘£ “O 
ebyuy-e10poumiog ‘Sung ,42TPO, Id 


spaepueqzs Jal STR JO ubyTsep ey} oF pe {nqy;aquoS eTdoed HufaMoT[oOJ SUL 


*o7hq ped © ST >UMYO AWWN SU 10938 ,,0, SUL 


22 C2 2222 BSB VS2SOSVPWFlElSs®#®E®*#®**®s2 2H 2B2®*FZeoeoe 


| Squy OTUOIQOeTA Ss6étl 
{ 0z 4 (2), 


i 
$m em wm ww www ew ee mew wwe wee wee + 
{ ,2eQTNH sseq, | 
» SAWN, | 
$a we www em www nen nee een eee eee * 
[ 0°T’0’€’0000T’S’9T’bzl 
| 0z , UdHA, | 


+ -_- ~—_ a ee ee oe ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe oe +> 
oe | 
el 


*XGOd @Ae {00-se.1 @ HutuTeQuoo erduexe e[dutTs e 103 weshetTp xoq & $,e109 


B - 68 


ST 
Ae STZ @ 4oJ seUTQNOA 5 esn 03 Aresseoeu Qou YHnoyA sseTUiey STF II 
6 03 


JTPUSH 
wt’ BT TGM0D/ZIF, SPNTOUTH 
H UTIIGNOO JOPUus TH 


0 ZALLOW O19 uy 
8 
* (OTTJ) exeTOOPUNSIT-MH CP ‘CTT ¥ 
eq3 BuysoTo qnowqyTa Huyzezznq dojs 02 40 ‘“SSOTDO Op ‘Suop USUM 
*A[QOe1Tp SeUuT ANCA 
©/T SOd 843 eSN 30U OP -- ESOTOD ‘27809 ‘OITAMD ‘peew) ESN XINO 
; *6butTatsa Aue 
Hutop e10zeq pue eTTz egy Buyuedgp 203k 
(ezts ‘sezznq ‘STTZ)ereTOSEGeEITIMO °€ 
uwoud smoA out o°oT6 HUTT °Z 
T FAIL OID Sutzep# *T 
OL 


¢ Ww 


*eeaxeeazeeoaeaeanaeaeae 


0 FAIION OID SutzepH 
‘epoo dn-peeds eq} TWO OL 


s 
*moteq Betz FAILOV OID Su 3S ys NOK , 
’2°oTb BuTTTdwoD 4O ‘’STTeS 5 erxeu 2euQ seTnpow Aue ButTTdmoo eu0jeg y/ 


-dn-pepeeds zefuot ou ATduyTs ST STTZ YSATJ OG ‘ASOT ST eVep 

ou ‘ssoTuiey ST STUL ‘pexzesznqun seuoced STTS 3SATZ EY ‘“PESOTOO ST 
SlTs ASATJ EY S10Jeq ETTJZ Pucces e 103 SETOEGEITIMD TTeO NoA ZI 
‘HbuTayam soz ATuo pue ‘out, & Ae ETTJZ GUO S1ezznq A[UO UOTSBA STUL 
-eseo 


QeuQ UT AUeTeATNbe e.re eSOTD pue esOTDD ’°5°e ‘pe.zezznq Bufeq jou 


i wenn e nn wen ewe e we wen wwe wenn nemo nn nen nnn en nme w enn n wenn enon oooocnece= 7 
¥ 3 
i *seQndm0o ehTuy-e.10pouMloD EY A0J UOCTSIOA STU - 
§ § 
/s ‘ufeuop OFTqnd eyQ Uy ST @7eMQzZ0S STUL »/ 
7 *squy OTUOAQSeT_ ‘MeYS eAe{S pue uosTLOEW Auer Ag v 
¥ § 
/s *suotjounZ »/ 
/s o76 szeqjo Aue buttreo moaaA () 44701 TTeo Asma nok ‘sen 10.110 sog ,»/ 
i oTzyToeds Qeum eres no& pue nof 03 420.120 ue 8710de1 OTH JI :ONINGYM +4 
¥ ¥ 
/s ‘seg pue SOIT4M TTeUS snozeumU SeOp WOTUA »/ 
. dJaI S€ YONS Epod 403 QueOTJTUHTS INO ST pepTAc.id dn-peeds euy :@70N 7 
¥ § 
/s “GUT & We perezznq ETTZ eAT4m euo ATuQ °3eX dn-pepeeds jou prog »/ 
/s -abesn jo e[dexe ue 10} D°ITBD0ID 80S +/ 
i 98/ez/T -ebepoeg dn peeds 0/I OTseueg 403 sjop H'OIS + 
GOS 0S 0000000 0080800008 8S OOS OS SOS SFOS SSS SSO SS CSO OOOO OOOO eee § 
H OID SutTzepe 
H OID Jepus t# 


t ebeg qotS og6t ot:sT € Ady 


H UsTIdNOO J TPUSH 


/+ LI DIWL INWD STITHNATS) ASNWORE INO CaLNAWNOO IWM1d SUTJOPH »/ 


/~= *SeH0YD eGR AT TdMoS we eAeT NOA ZT IWMI SUTFEPH OUR INO USUMIOD » 
¥ 
()2128S SNOT U203xe * 
Kes asnf noA ssetun ejoyo sieqjo SLT TGM 
(ONOT ‘ONOT ‘SLdd)#2°S ONO u1t08 xe . 
sedAy, quoumBsy WATA suoT{e1eTSCeg UOTIOUNYZ STpueY ued SIO[TGUOO D SUNS 
GION -- HZION -- GION -- ION -- GION o/ 


sTPUSH 
wd’ SedA9 /oexe,, epnTouT# 
H SddAL OdXa JOPUTTH 


[etenenneeeeeenveeeeeeyeeeyOeeUOUUOUUUSSETEOSEOESOSSSOSSSUEUSUEEESENEET#/ 
¥ 


/s 


it ‘uyewop a a aaa 
3 ¥ 

/* °Dd RAI ©qQ wosz efhjuy oqR 103 seTTdICO-sS01D ENE EOTIWET :UCTSIA 2/ 
/s ‘seTsetouASoTpyT s2eTTdmoo erpuey 02 eTTZ AATITGeqWI0g =» / 
/+= 98/62/T aeus 8493S; / 


/ESRSEEREVESESTSETTETESEETEPTETTETFSTSETTSESTESTESTS FESS TY 2OTTGMOD xyy/ 
H WI IIdNOO Seutzeps 
H MzIIdWoO sepust# 


T e6eg q'2elTadmoo OS6T OTT © Ady 


J TPUuSH 


(o ‘TINN ‘@TT3)er7eTOeEGeITIMD «6(CTTZ) exeTOEpUNEAT4MH eEUTJEp}E 
/-'Xenkue ous, e We petesjnq eq ued e[Tz euo ATUO “ATQUOLMND x 
‘sBjjNd Tly eseeTet 03 (TINN) SAeTOOPUNSATIMD) °SzUSQUOD 
Aue sey 31 JT MSTP OF 2F Surysntz ‘ets ey A0J sezznq eyA eseeloy ,/ 


AALIOW OID J TPUctHt 


(epou ‘uozatsod ‘ertz)212es (epou ‘uoT3Tsod ‘eTTz) xeegs SuTsEpH 
(seqAqu ‘4ezjnq ‘OLTZ)©IT4M (seqzkqu ‘sezznq ‘eTTs)SITIM) SUTJEp# 
{0} (seqAgu ‘szezjnq ‘eTTz) e+e TOeGeIT AMD SUTJEpH 

0 (©ETTZ) USNTIOIT 4M) SUTIOPH 

(seqigu ‘s0zznq ‘eTtz)peey) euTsept 
(ELT) esoTIN SuTzepH# 

(epomuedo ‘eureueTtj) uedog euTzepit 


/*s FAW OID 30U »/ SSTS# 
Iv™da zTpuc# 


‘ ()2799099 ONOT Ut08q xe 

‘ ()©3T4M9 ONOT U4t63xe 

‘ ()exeTOeGe3T4M9 ONOT Uz0eqxe 
£ () QSNTJ03T4MD ONOT U209x0 
be () peey) ONO] U103xe 


(seqkqu ‘sezznq ‘eTTz) peo 
(e1TtZ) eSOTD 
(spoumzedo ‘eureus[ Tz) uedo 


£(/,opouty/ ONOT °/,U0TRTSOd,/ ONOT ’°/s©TT3s/ ULdd) #20SD ONOT UstEQxe 
/~=*pesezznq Buyeq 3,Uexre WOTYA SOTTJZ AO} UEAD TTD O2 
eyes st os peubtseq ‘eucu uess ju0oddns pTNOd AQ °U8Q9T4A Huyeq 16q}0 , 
eq ‘pee Buyeq euo ‘sets Quepuedepuy ony quoddns {[Tm ‘ATTenqueAg » 
*2033Nq OYA UTURTA Huy es » 
USYA UOT{TSOd GIO Sqy suimje1 ATITOTTdxe Mou Epod eGR ’7OeJ UL 


¢ eeg q'oT6 O86 OT:bT € Ady 


‘uoT3TSod MEN ©YQ sumyer QF sAes UoTZeQUCUMSOp eT ybnouy ‘Hupjeces x, 
duos UoTATsod eyQ eq 02 sueedde WTYA ‘SUIN}e1 Joos JeEYA SUINIEY x/ 
/s°®3T2MD WTA ueqQTIK Buyeq eTTs e 403 ‘dn-peods oT4eUeD UATA ,8°S, +/ 


£ (/gsoqykquy/ ONOT ‘/xt053Nds/ » ALAA ‘/e©Tt3¥/ ULdd) OFTAMO ONOT UtERxe 
/+(°27eSD GaTNbe1s Soop qJI) ‘“SUOp USYA ESOTDO UST y 
‘perpnbet JT Ses) UITA SEITIMD SATSSeOONS op USEYW ‘UEdOD TTD 
*xaSTP 023 USA T4AA seziq + SsuUmNJIeL SSTS “Slt WOIJ AOAIS UO T= xg 
-dn-peeds oy18Uey UITA ,CITIM, ¥ 
* ,827IM9, HLIM NSLLIUM ONIZG ATIA W NO NAAS OL + 

,NOOS, UeTQ seqze1 ,210099, ASN ISN w©IT4MO, SASN HOIHM WveoOud ANW +/ 


£ (/~soqkquy/ ONOT °/42053NGs/ » ALAA ‘/ySTTSe/ Uldd) STeTOCMEITAMD ONOT W1E2xe 
/ 4° yeTTOCPUNSITIMD,, OSTE GCS y 
‘ySNTZ Joyjnq SHoyTAeid YeqA 1OJ STAM Wosy A01IG UO T- NUNLAY x 
‘peysniy ©q ASATJ YsSTM sOJZNq YeYR US » 

‘exeT0ege3T IMO Buypueyszno ue wosz AT UT eJep sey Apeoite s0zznq CUR JI +/ 

/e CLTZ OW AOJ sz9zZZNQ OATIA B EQT1OSEep 02 SeTqeTzwA dn szeg y/ 


!(/e©UT3s/ ULdd) WSNTIOIFAMN ONOT w283xe 
/-¢° OXFAM WOIJ AOLIO UO T- x 
‘USQQTIA eIEp ETA JO pUS ET Eq 02 UOTATSOd Que1Md SESNES YSNTICITIAMO » 
:JazZNQ JO STPPTW OAUT perxees GACT NAHM ZION 

‘OLTZ AOJ 2OzZNQ OQTIK UT eQep Aue Qno seqTaM y/ 


¢ (/gseqkquy/ ONOT °/¥2033NGy/ » ALAA ‘/ySTtSs/ Ulda) path is 
+ ¥ 
ue TATA peqeToosse seo.mose.s weqshs Aue ee13 02 GSOTDIO “eUOp USM 
‘wo1z peer buted eoTAep ey} JO eMjoONAAS-»oTq Aue Jo sseTpreber ‘[TeO x 
qjoro ut seqAq jo Jequmu Aue eTpuey ueo uwe7shs ey} soumssy ‘STTJ SQ ¢ 
UT BReP JO sHUMYS eaTSsSedons 36H 02 Speeyy Op ueu; ‘STTS SUF uedoD » 
*2eX dn-pepeeds jou peoy ,/ 


‘(/s®TT3¥/ ALdd)©SOTIO ONO U1087x0 
/-°O374M WOsZ JOLIG UO T- SULINICY » 
*JOJJNQ OFTAM GYR SeO1Z FY SOUSNTT :ALON +/ 


‘(/,epoutredo,/ ONOT ‘/,OWeUSTTSy/ » zeyo)UedCD Uldd W1EqxXe 
/-"MOTS SOUTRNO. JeT}O EY OF UT pessed ST sejUTOd STUL ‘STTJ Uedo EUR y 
seqTJosep 7eTR Emons petiddns-ueqshs & 0} seqQuTOd ,OTTJ, © SNUNLAM 
| ‘OLTZ MOU © ORTAM O23 FZITAMIN JGOW » 
40 ‘eTTz BuyAsTxe ue e3T4H/peet 02 FTIATIO ACO 20UITS STF ,epouusdo, » 
*@ORJISIUT SQ UT SSeUSRETGMOS 103 Jueseig ,/ 


/~ sedky, queumbay WATA uoTAeseTIeg UOTQOUNY SeTpUEY JET TdIOD »/ IACI JOPITH 
AALIOW OID 3T# 

ZTPUSH 

ONINIOID LASIIO ONINNIOAD LASIIO SuTJepH 

ONINNIOA LASISO JOPus TH 

JTPUSHE 


wd SOp/SeTseiqyT,, SpNTOUT#} 
H SOW SAIMVSHIT JOPUTTH 


zg ebeq q'oT6 + O86T OT:dT © Ady 


/e° yAIGNscb,, sepnTouT eZTSpP stm ¢/ {eZISP ONQI 


/<° WOOK FO UOTREUSTWOUC,, 4O ‘~XXXX SdAQ WHOT TATA » 
peqefoosse seTqztedoud, ’.XXKX edAQ WYOT JO ISIT, “wOOK CdAQ WHOA, + 
‘SUNY QUeQUOD eT SETJTIWePT eyy GI edAAqns e s87Je SHUM ¢» 

JO SUOTZEUByEOUCD UTeWWOS (IW F ’dOYd ‘NYOT ‘ISIT) spy Guydnorg eq »/ 


((2epeerprumy) yoozTs + (eztsezep)ubtTyps0m) (ezTselep)ezTs@uNT) eUTJEpH 
/+ *y®ZFS TeoTboT,, 410 wozTs e7ep, SIT 
wo1j xuUNYO popped e jo ,ezTs TeoTsAdd, [e302 eq? Sez SZTISPUNT) » 
“SHLAA JO WAGWNN NAAT OL Gaadvd ad ISNW SUNNHD TIW +/ 


le’ ee sro7 s)) 03 ga OJOeU STUL ¢/ 


(t 9 (e))  (e)ado sI euTzep# 
/-*UBTTe-p10M US OS PPO ST ENTeA & 1EQISYA MOL 02 PEON »/ 


TT0000008X0 UMOCUYIEXIONZS EUTJEPHt 
/¢° ,@ZTS OGY SANd0d,, UeSU 02 4ORTIA EGR OF UAMOUAOAIONZS = SZTHP ssed a/ 


‘yunqp { 
SC /pOZTSIO 2ATIVAUs/ T JeVe@P ALAAN 
SeZTSP ONOT 
‘app =—ss« @I 
} 2on13s sopedAQ 


SeZ¥SO ONO 
‘app. —s« I 
} 2on13s zepedAQ 
/~= °00} ‘ue{QT4M ST ©7Aq ped o & 
‘ppo SF szOqUMU JET JI °,OZTS eRep, AO ,OZTS TOTHOT, S,yUNYO EGI--MOTTOJ 
yeyA sezlq eZEp eA JO QUNOD © pue GI edAQ & YATA 2eRS SMM TIv +/ 


/e° UNTO QUELINS ON y/ 10 SINNED ‘TION SUTJEPH 
/-° 28374 pue sopeer yungo Aq ATTeus0Quy pesn qI-opnesd »/ 


/~ UOFAEZTPAEpueYS GIMANZ OJ x 


POATOSOL OIE LELWn’ “ulTIWe 8 “w6ST Iu’ wlSITn ‘u68OIn’ “uTHOI, SAI CML v/ 
(, o's o's o's sQIONCW UATIIA SuTJOPH 


a a ela We sD, )CIONEN IVD SUTIOPH 
Le sSe ale’ sTs J CIOTEN LSIT SUTIOPH 
sda Or aa ads CIoren doudd SUTJOPHE 
Wa Us 10. (4 d,) CIOTEN WHOA SUTIOPH 


/-°mIUNY e10u 10 o.10ez Aq peaortto3 qredAraqns 
© SUTERUOD SGI ESeqR JO CUO TATA HUNG Y “SCI dnowbh prepuers »/ 


vy ebeg uss 986T HV:PT © Ady 


S) UBT Typ.10Mq SUTEpHE 


( (P) | e>>(©) | T9T>>(a) (ono7) | THz>>(e) (NOT) ) «{(Pp’0’q’e) aTEXeN CUTIEPH 
/-° IOPTING AWTJTAWSQI 297Oe.eyO-un0g »/ 


/~°exeadmoe » Adoo qUeTOTJJO A0J ONO] & SE poicjs , 
qnq sieqgo TIDSW ETqequTad unoj st CI uy +/ ‘aI ONOT zepedA3 


| prnon nn nn cnn e renner nner nc ene ren one ner er aren nenenneonoses AI cocene-=-- «/ 


{ ¢(dyz1)umjex (xm aal =i G3t) 31} = () aaAP POU euTsepy 
/~ °JBTTEO SAT A0Z SUIM{CL YT » 
OUTS GUTRNOAQNS & Se H1OM 3,UPTNOA STUL “Q_ ubTsse pue ,djJT ddI, TPT ¢ 
© GIeTOCEP 03 4ETTeEO ey seitnber Ar -ouoeu patem AQQeud © ST STUL “punoJ , 
ST UOTRTPUCO UOCTQEUTULIER © USGA ATOQeTPOUMT NANIAA OF PESN ST OCWOWN STUL +/ 


aal Awa SOWa LSWI SuTsope 
/~°Sep0D Jo1te Jo ebuet , 

e@ ORUT sTUuy puedxg [qal] "eTTs aaI peuioz-Tem yf I6- aAaT Ava SUTJOPH 
/-°A0J peq 40 Hnq QueTIO eq PTNOD “»AUMYO EUR UT » 

JET ueqQ sezhq excu sejAgpeeyagI 03 peryse QUETID »/ T8- ANNE LUOHS SUuTzsepH 
/-° MUNGO pespnbe1z e Huysstu ynq ‘AAT PTTeA °6'e » 


{soTquemes WOT yhoqe supeTduos coid peer QUETIO W s/ ‘IL- WaOT dvd SUuTsePH 


| (ee SZTS SATIAeHeu & 
@QT4M ‘eoue_suT 403 ‘Ase PTIEAUT OpeUl QUSTID s/ T9- BOWdA INAITO SUTzZEpH 
/e°3T PUTZ 2,UPTP SOd ‘STTZ uedo 02 petal y/ ‘IG- AIIA ON SUTJOpH 
/e'OltZ ATI Ue QON yf Te- aa LON SUTJOPH 
| Te- wwmid SOd SUTJEPH 
/e°Xeyo ST STFA *STOAST TTS NW UME. Sue II 


‘yBnoue GYAN SEY IT USYA STR SumM_e1 COLGWUETIO y/ TZ- ANOC aaI CUTIOPHE 


/4°Gnos6 Jo pue ye xT & sen O1ENR JT Se yf TT- WWW CNA SUTIOPH 
/-°°Buyob dey s/ 10 AWNO dal SuTzEpH 

/e°SQI TebeT ou exe MOTed SOpOS 410.110 SY} EY} O20N y/ 

/e° APEPINIDAED 403 CI WTA ETQeyTdmoo edAQ eq YsmmM eSNeseq ‘ONOT +/ 
/~ @EmMpeocoid gal ue Worz YTNse1 Epod snyeAs ,/ ‘ddaI ONOI zepedAR 


sTPUSH 
ONINIOdd LASISO ONINNIOA LASAIO SuTs opt 
ONINNIO€T LASAsO JOPUs TH 


JTPUSH 
ud’ SOp/SeTserQTT,, EPNTOUT# 
H SOW SAIuWadIT JOPUz TH 


| sTpUSH 
ut’ ABT FGIOS/JZT, OPNTOUTH 
H ATIGNOO JOPUs TH 


| / 
‘ufewop OTTGnd eq3 UT ST exeNqzos STI, »/ 
*"Sqty OTUC.QCSTA ‘MEYS EASQS pue UoSTI0KH Aer Ag v4 
¥ 
98/zz/T “SOTA Jeulog ehueyosequy Sg-gsaI 403 Syeq H’aaT ¢/ 


tT eg WIZF OCET PZ2PT EC Ady 


$(_ yxeqQuogdno.s2) dnowYyesoTD diaI use 7xe 
/~s °XWHO aaI susnqes sAenTe STUL 
*dno.16 eq BbuTpees pe.imd09:0 Sey 40.1 UB JBQJE y 
empecsoid szetnotzszed styq TTeo 02 Aexo s,QI ‘upebe pesseooe eq UPD 3XOUCS » 
quezed eq] pue peqesotteep eq Aeul 3xeQU0D plo euQ. ‘STUQ HBUTTTES JEITY + 
*|4xeQU02 Qquered sqt GuTqepdn ‘qxeQuoo peeu dnoz6H & eSOTD ;/ 


/e neu ‘quered ,/ 
[(_ yxequogdno.2) ’, yxeQuopdno.s) dnoszjyuedg dzaI uz687yxe 
/» ‘quesed qsed spuejxe 10 ppo st pues qxeqUOo J} BOM AAT Ava + 
*GnowWYso[D Huf{ Teo esojeq 
4xeQU0D QUeled EGA SSGOOE 10 YXSAUOD SUQ SREOOTTeep 3, uSeOp ASETTeS AWNSSW + 
*POZTIETATUT AOU 3Anq seTTeo Aq pe AeooTTe 3Xe {UCD ABU AWNSSV + 


' 
(-edky qq6t4 eq JO Wao” szequUMOCOUe Nod USYA GIIeIZ MOU B GREOOTTES x 
OSTe 02 QueTUeAUOS ATTENSN $,3I) “ISIT SU} 103 Sad G109S 02 ,,omeAZ » 
YOUAS, BW GACT IT, IF OS AXOQUOCS ISIT &@ Huyuedo JT cuerUSTI[O MOU B QE QT ¢ 
quTodet p[noys 2eT [eS euy, ‘eurerQUeTIO<-QUered = GUTeE1IQUETIO<-MOU SOS STUL ¢ 
‘sumo jo souenbes © ST JOpUuTeuo , 
em os (IW pue ‘dO’d ‘WaOd ‘ISIT 103 apppmnypyeg Aq ATTeoTQeEwo{Ne) 
pee1 useq seq qr edAqqns s,dnos6 ey szeqye ysnf peTTe> ©q IITA STUL + 
*4xeQUOD pee dnowh &@ se yUMNYS QUe.LMS eUQ jo JepuTeue. eT UedO ;/ 


/_  GmerAWETTO ‘MOU OTTI  s/ 
I (4 emerQUETTD ‘» JreqUODdNezD ‘YLad) Jared daa uszeqxe 


-dno2wyeso[D Huy[ Teo e1zojyeq AxeqVUCS ey EEdOTTeSEp 3,USEOP 4ST TES AWNSSV + 
*POZTIETITUT Jou Anq szeTTeo Aq peQeooTTe 3xXe QUOD AWNSSW + 

*SUCLIWUCSCTTO = SUeAQUST[O<-MOU SQES STU x 

‘garpeey Aq petteo Atuo AT[Temiou St STUL + 

“@[TZ STOUR ey Huyuueds QxeQUO0D pees © uedo ‘eTTJy Uedo Ue UBATD + 


IWMI JOPI TH 


(ze gzogseqhq<- (06) - ezts: apepp<- (26)) (96) seqAgeucypyuny euTzepH 
/e °06 3xeQuU0D pees dnoi6 © , 
ueATS ‘xUNGO QUe.LMS eYQ Wo1z pees 3a Jou se7Aq jo szequmu ey} seqndu0D ,/ 


Sqxequojdno.y { 
/~e “tzeEp S, HUNG QuUeLMS Jo ueI{TA4M/peeit sozhq # ,/ ‘xegogsezAq ONOT 
/, °‘Suypees vega qr edAqqns s,dnorg ,/ ‘edAqqns qI 


/- ‘encode ‘SqI-opnesg oOsTe eeg , 

(ATuo 269714) ezyTs eq) Aes pue »xDeq Of 02 peoU GM SUC , 
UMOUNIOXKIONZS = OZTSAO'ApEPPO “szepeeq wUNYS Ques y/ : 

/~= °(ATUO 203741A) UMOUROZIONZS JO , 


pumoq 3XxXe UCD eAnTOSqe-eT TZ »/ ‘punoq ONO1 
/~ “UCTATsod eTTz TecoTHoT s,3xeQUCS eUL ,/ uoT{TSOd ONOT 
/~ ‘S[puey ETT3 wee.ns-e7ig ,/ S@LT3 Uda 


Je °“SYEIS YXOQUOD B,QUETTO 7 EQEp szopecy ,/ [S@UIEATWUOT [Oy GueAZWUCST ID 
/~¢ ‘®TTZ STOGM <= TION ‘dnos6h Butuyequopn ,y/ ‘quesed, yxequopdnoszg” Qon44s 
} yxequopdno.xzy- ons zepedAQ 
/= “um dno.S e Gbuppees 103 4xeQUCD uNC ,/ 


yw eed WIJT SO6T PZ:WT E Ady 


‘eurerzqQUeTTD { 
/» sbhutqQes Aqsedoad xoeqs 03 eoetd /SMOTTOJ BIep UMNO 8, AQUETIO ;,/ 
$qe9906, ‘wiog,e6, ‘dosgjeb, ‘4sTI{e6, SOAG{UETIO 
} eureaqQUeTID- WOn41Q3s JopedhR 

/~ °“ISII Hupurpequoo ey 103 3sTT_e6 Aq peqecortte , 
eurety eq} OAUT S10RS pTNoys e.npeocoid doigjeS euy, *SqueQUOCo s,eureuj Quoued , 
eu Adoo pue ,curesj, Mou e SVZeOOTTeS pTnoys sooid w109790e6 pue AsTyAeb .mox , 
‘pIeTs FeUQ oAUT 2»uNYo Azzedoid e pee1 GA, NOA seuReGA Hut AeoTpUT 
ueeTOOd B Geer 4o A[Nejep TeqoTH © O23 PTSTJ GoNS Yue SZTTSTATUT ANT » 
*pezequnooue Ajzuedoid , 
yOUTASezeQUT,, YOR G1ORS OF PTSTZ & Sey WEN? (,ouesz,, soOeAS [euoszed sQT) , 
Qon.yQs szebsre{ e JO YUeUCdMOS ASITJ EUR STYQ SxeM ATTeENQOe PTNOYS AUETIO » 
-dnos6H © 10 S[TJ agar ue Huypeer 10J QAxeQUOS &,QUETID 


Zs TpPust 

!()oo2gQueTID daaI zepedA3 

@STS# 

$(— yxequogdnoz— 30n4138) S04g{UETID dial zepedA 

IW8dd J°p3 T# 
/y ‘moTeq seg : (s6utqQes Aquedoid perxypeqs) eqep Tenjxequoo eqeatad , 
amok 3066 03 3On13s Buyupequoo -moX 03 «qd © oQUT 37 Ase edAQ OF WURM , 
IT,nox ‘43d eurezgueT{D nok 203 34d yxeQWuopQdno1g SYA EpPTSUT AOOT 
*DIPUNYDASD SAT T SeuT Nor szepeets But{TTeo ueua 34d Qx@eQuUOoDdN0+5 eUQ eS » 
¥ 
*SdOUd pue ‘SIWD ‘SWNOI ‘SISIT STpueY 02 ORE 

weu} STTeS WoTUA ‘ggrTpeey 03 edAQ sTuA Jo se.mpesoid 03 sujd sessed QueTID ;/ 
/»+ *ABpeer FIT uojzeTeysS ey pue , 
‘(mojTeq) cO1gqUeTID ‘sempecoid esoyA Seg ‘SETTJ SY UeOS 03 Jedrpecey pue , 
‘AsTTIpeCY ‘TAIpPeey esn 03 ST STTZ JAI ue Hutpees s0J GwSYOS T[e4BAO OUT 
¥ 
“dno. YeSOTD UATA 3xXE\UCS EYQ eSOTS pue ‘sezAgpeeyzaI pue (UT ST pue) 
JpPEPTMYDASD UATA sxuMYO eyA pees ‘dnosgyuedo 40 gJaTyuedO WTA ,,3xXeWUOD , 
peer dno.6, e uedo 02 ST Jepeet AUNYS [TOAST MOT GYR A0J SUEYOS [Te4GAO OU] ¢ 
¥ 
"@po®d 40118 OTJToedS , 
eu 410J Sod yse ‘eseo JeUyQ Ul “YOM Sod uuanjor Aeul seutynos eseuy JO IIW + 
¥ 
‘OTQEPTOAeUN SeUTISUOS ST O/I TeT Wed , 
4deoxe ‘eSeS J0.LIe EA UT S700JJe SPTS ou eAeY 02 A1Q SOUT INO’ ESeUT , 
jto.11e ue s6eqze Uo sseid 4,U0g ‘“Sepod 40118 GAZI AOCYUSD PTNOYS AUSETTIO 
‘OLTJ eyQ wWo1z Hutpees seuo ATuo eyA eve ASA YEUX AWNSSW SOUTINOA eseUL 
¥ 
qxequoe HuTuTequoo Aue 3sed pees 02 OU [NJereS OSTS S1e Aeuy, ‘butpped aeao , 
Butddpys pue Buppeyo 10110 Se YONS STTe_IEpP JO SOT STpueY SeuT Noi Sseu] -» 
¥ 


SEUEERE JOPeCOl SOTTJ JII pequeTs0-weesjs e Vioddns 02 SOUTINOY veveseys/ 
| nnn nnn nnn nnn rrr nnn nnn rrr rrr rrr rrnn Jopeey dal ---------- / 


Syunggdno.g { 
'C /»(arangdb) yoozts-eztsyo :XTIWAds/ T J eveqds6 aLxan 
‘arqngdab aI 


€ eed WJJT OB6T PZ:FT © Ady 


eeesyss J2372A OLTZ FAI poquetto-uee.gs e Zioddns 02 SOUTINOY sevesee/ 


/= INMdd 30U y/ SSTSH 


APIO* ApEPIO"AXeAUCS yg / 
£(. yxequogdnoe.9) spHpTNTDG399 CI us383xe 

/~= ‘yunqo dnoz6 e s3e6 37 37 Jal dvd suamjes pue apipunynze9 STTeS asnf 3I + 

*dOUd & SPTSUT 2fiNGO yOee pret 03 ApEPUNIDASD JO peeqSUT ApPEMUDAICD ITED +/ 


/s 3xeWOD = GPP" ApHP|"QxKeqQuOO =>» / 
£(_ yxequogdno.9) azp_PTUNYDT I}! 
/* °IND 20 ‘ISIT ‘WHOT © SAeQUNCOUS , 
QT 3T (31Tnse1 ey sumye1 pue) empeooid Qepje6 pue ‘4sTTIEH ‘u077eb 5 
ej 03 seupjedstp ATTeopyeMoyne 3F 3Nq ‘ApPEPUNTDIISD SAT SF APIPUMUDTACD +/ 


/= 3xeqUCD = PTO" apEPFO’AXeQUCDo>g/ 
£(_ yxeqQuoDdno19) spEPTUNTDAIeN CI u.zeqxe 

Je “UNIO Ud @ 8986 AT ZT Ta Ava Sunyzes pue spPUMUDIeN STTeO 3snf II + 
‘WAOT B EPTSUT UNO YORe peer OF JPHPUNIDASD JO peeqsUyT APIPIMIDIIO TTF +/ 


/s quesed ,/ 
£(_ yxequogdnoin) JeDIpeeY qJaI UsS{xXe 
/s ‘IND 0% UT saeedde goud & JT NOMA AAT AVE + 
*(3s473 ,eU0p, pTes Oo. 
QUETIO © JT) BNO aaI 40 (peuuecs Jy STOUM JT) AWIO AAI ST UANQEA TEULION 


¥ 

“40M [TTeAIEp EGA Op OF Weolpesy ITSO empecocid AeYR GACY » 

pure ‘euwe1qqQUeTTO ey3 UT e.mpecsoid 3eD366 amo 03 19d @ 3nd ’>}10m dn-3eS x 

2.Qx8 op ystm nok ZI ‘SIWD ATER peet 03 sTuR esn A[GUTS UES SWUSTIO ISON ¢ 
"Jepeet IWD ddI +/ 

/— WMeAFAUCTTO ‘quered ,/ 

$(, GMSARUCTID °s qxequojdnoz5) 3SFTIpeeW digaI u2z08qxe 

/= ‘aOad-uou e szeqze suvedde dud & JT BWOUNA AAT Av + 

°(3S4T3 ,eU0p,, pres 201d x 

QUSTIO © ZT) ANOD dal to (peuueos ISI] STOUA 3T) AWIO aAI STF UMQeA TELION » 

¥ 


“410M OF TTe Op 02 empeocoid STYA [TSO USEq} pue “SUIEATIUCSTID ¢ 
S,querzed egy Adoo ‘eurer;qquey[D @ EAEOOTTS prnoys eimpecsoid ,3ST1A06,, ANOX x» 


9 e6eg U33T O86T PZ:FT E Ady 


"JOpeet ISIT djl s/ 


Ju SMCIFAUETIO ‘OLTF »/ 
!(_ GUeEWQUETID ‘ULdd) AIPeCU dazaI Uszw8z7xe 
/= ‘semnpecord doigje6 pue ‘eD906 ‘ui0g}e6 ’AsTT{Eeb TeASTOYS SA 8S ¢ 
: (3saTZ ySuop,, PTeS coud ¥% 
QUETIO © JT) ANOG daaI 10 (peuueos eTTz STOUM JT) AWNO AAI ST UNQOA TEULION » 


¥ 
-(Asee STU} Seu 03 sP—PPUMGDT AWN esN ued 37) WeDIeH pue ‘ASTTES 
‘uLiog3e6 03 yoRedsTp ysnu e.mpecoid wi073e6 euy ‘SWOT UTUATA peqseu » 
SIWD pue ’SISIIT ‘SWHOd STPUeY 03 Quem NOA JT * (3eD9E6 anoA 403 JEDTpPeSY » 
esn ysnf 3,U0p noA JF ‘TTES prnoys yeD3e6 anoX yotya) JedIpecy pue (TIES » 
PInoys AsT7T{e5 «moh yotya) ASTIIPeESY JO pyre SGI IFA peASTYoe ST STUL yx 
*43d Qxequogdno.+n 
em Butssed ‘eurerqqueTTO ut empesord do1zg_e6 40 ’3eD 306 ‘ASTTMIOD ys 
‘mi09706 eUA TTeO ‘peszequNosue qOYd 40 ‘IWD ‘ISIT ‘WHOA Tee 40J pue y 
*S{UBQUOS S,ETTJ ENA eSed 02 ST eOpT SY, “SQUSWUOS SIFT pue Ty 40 “ISIT + 
‘WNOT SUR pees OQ AF ESN pue QxeqQuUOo dnowH e SReEOOTTeS ‘STTJ uedo ue UBATS 
‘JOpeet SITS Fal +/ 


£(_ yxequogdno.9) dnozgdrys daaI usz98qxe 
/-°s001d doigne6 pue ystT306 ey 103 dnoigdyjs esn 
pue ‘euretWUeTTO JO PTeTs 2eD7e5 eyy UT ZeOTpeey e10js ‘w0;}eb QuewSTAIT » 
asnf 3u6Tu szepee.s etdmys y ‘dno. ey sds asnf yen empecoid 3eD9e6 40 , 
‘doagyeb ‘u107306 ’astTQeb & 103 esn ued noA eG} SOAGQUETTIO doou © ST STUL s/ 


/eseee JOPeOY STTA Jal seues/ 


/~ seyqu ’sezznq *qxeQuoD y/ | 
S(ONOT ‘» BLAA ’s 3xeQuoDdNo+D) seqAgpeoysaI dJzaI Uswwezxe 
/+ (‘seqykq Aue peer 9,U0mM soqAgpeoyadl + 
YNNEDLYOHS 40 YOMMA INAITIO 2zeyRTe uo) * (w10z peq) eq oF QUHNO , 
QT ueq} t0ej4U0YS Ss, JeEUR xMYO e Ao Hnq AUeTIS & OF SNP Eq PTNOO YOTUA 
(3xe3U0>) seqAgercypyuny) < seqAgu JT INNHD LYOHS °0 > sejAgu ZT MOUNT INIT + 
-TeeweceTd ejep ey peer 02 SOUR yx 
Te1zeAes STU TTeO ueS Nox (-xUNGS dnowH © Jo SQUeEQUOS OT} Peet OF PEOISUT 
‘on9 ‘dnosguedg esp) ‘2UMYD Que. jo seqkq ezep Jo sequmu sezAgu peey »/ 


/+ xe UCD 

2 (_ 3xeQuogdno.) ApEPTUMYDIED 

/e°MOTOG ‘JAPEPTMUDICD pue ‘APEUNGDTAICN ‘APEPUNGDIICH COSTS GES » 

§ 

“OTTJ-JO-pue ATW OM 40 

‘@ATRTSOd 3,UST GDIO ’3xeQUOD HutuTe_UOD 4103 HTq 003 Jo EAT ZeHEU ST SEZTSIP » 
‘Be ‘UMW peuLloj[eu JF FAT AWA AO ‘IWD A0 “ISIT ‘WHO © 3, UST UNIS OTT ¢ 
Tenet dol OM JT AAT LON 10 /3x@QU0D STqQ UF SoM S1OU CU Ere S418N} JT + 
WA UNA ‘ (2epeey »uNG seu egy JO CI ©43) CPP’ APP’ 3XeE {UCD SNUNLAY + 


§ 
-seTpuey eqeTidoidde ue 03 (edAqqns pue) qpfo uo qojedsTp plNnoys JETTED » 
-edAyqns<-3xeqUOS oRUT qr edAqqns , 
em speer ATTeoT_EMoANE STIQ ‘dOYd 4O ‘IWD ‘WHOA ‘ISIT ST APP SH JI + 
* IPEP[O'YXSQUOS OUT sepeey HuUNYO 4xXoeU SQ Peet , 
ueqa ‘buypped Aue pue xunyo snoyzaeid eyy jo seqXq Suyupewes Aue dps »/ 


/+ PTO »/ 


g eed W33T O86T HZ:PT E Ady 


B- 73 


*qxequogdno.+ 
eqepdn pue xunqo Que.ms eq 103 seqiq eqep Jo sequmu sezAgu 677M ¢/ 
/e ©ZISP ‘aPP *qxeqQUu0D  y/ 

S(ONOT ‘AI ’g 3xe QUODdNO.D) ApIPIAN dadI UszeqxKe 
/= *(Sepoo 10.116 40J pesn ere senTeA QI TebeTIT eseuy) 0 => APP JT + 
4o ‘3xe}U0D (TOAST STTJ) TeAeT doq & UT TWD AO “ISIT ‘WHOA SUC UE ¢ 
4Jeuj0 HuTuQewos eAT4Aa 02 HutA1Q e1,noh ZF * (uMoWeEAIONZS qdeoxe) x, 
0 > SZTSIO JT ‘pup ang Suyyoyeu e AnoyRyA peTTeo ATsnoyAeud sea ApHPDINd 
JT ‘punoqg s,3xeQuopdnoig SYA MOTJAEAO PTNOM »UNYS e4y JF NOW INAID +s 
"usqqT4a 366 seqhq jo sequmu , 
petzToeds eq} eq} GmMsuUS TTTA pupHy¢ng pue sezAgezTmadI “OSTAACUIO ¥ 
*seqeT NOA 10J OZTSYO STA 2SS TITA PUPH 3nd UeEur ¢s 
‘UMOUYROXIONZS = OZTSYO uT ssed ‘st »uMYo eyQ Hrq soy mou AeX 3,uU0p NoA JI 
*pupnand WATA YysTuTZ pue seqAgeqTIMgII » 

03 STTeS Jo szequmu Aue TITA STWR MOTTO’ ‘sepeey yunYO © Asnf e2T4M s/ 


Je €2ePy ‘OZTOP ‘APP ‘4xeqQU0D y/ 
'(¢ BEXG «= ONOT = “CI. ’g 3x@QUODdNOIN) 1HIANg dagaI WseqxKe 
/-= ‘SAOLIO IPFPPHING OSTe ESg “UMOCUNASEXIONZS = SZTSHO JT BOUT INAID + 
"gxeqQuojdno19 eyW seqepdn oste 47 °e3Xq ped e (pepseu zt) pue ‘sozAq ejEp 
@ZTSO ‘Aepesey HUNYO e& SEQT4AAM STUT, °yxequogdno..+.) e& OF YUMYO STOUA & O{T4y4 / 


/=_ PTO #/ 
$(¢ 3xXEQUO|DdN[ID) dno*;NMESOTD dAAI Us9QKO 
| /~= °ASATF PETTeO 3, uUSeM pu;:pp and JF AOWA INAIT » 
*UOTITSOd AeYA Ye ETTJ ESOTD ASM JETTED “uUAN_e1 pue pus PErTSEp y 
ey 03 UCT ITSOd 3snf eM * JOT OYA AOS 02 TTEO OU S,euey] :©R0N SOd eHTUV » 
¥ 
‘ufeHe pesseooe eq USD YXOUOS x 
quesed eq pue peqecottTeep eq Aew 3xeQU0S pro euy ‘STuR BUTTTeO Jel 
‘OTTJ ST SSOTO 3,U0M 4nq (eTTZ JO pue) JOT + 
S,SLTJ S43 30S 11,04 (gaIMUedO Aq peqeeto) QxeQUOD Tevet, do} & ST STU JI + 


¥ 
*dnosgupug Aq petteo Atuo ATT euLi0u ST STUL 
*QxeQUOS quered sqy eAepdn pue Axe UCD EQT4A & ESOTD s/ 


Jy mau ‘quesed =, / 

$(— yxequopdnosg ’y yxeQUODdNC1D) dnosguuedg dzgaI Usz087xO 
/« °ISATJZ POTTEO 9,USEM ApPEPININ 40 ppo STF pue 3yxeqQUCS JT BOW INAITD + 
*GnNosQMesoTD HuT{ Teo e10joq x 
qxeqQU0S QUered eYQ SSedoe 10 AXEQUOD SYR EAeEOOTTeSep 3, USeOp 4JETTeS AWNSSV sx 
*POZTTETATUF Jou Qnq sertteo Aq pezeEcoTTe Smjonsjs 7xeUOS MOU AWNSSV + 
‘euler IQUST [O<-Queted = SUIEIIQUOT[O<-MOU SOS STU x 
‘syunyo jo souenbes e eq [ITA SqueqUOO HuyuTeue. SYA OS ¢ 
ueq3T4AM Useq sey qr edAqqns s,dnosh eyy 4eqze Ysnf peTTeS Sq TITA STUL ¢ 
°9xOqU0D MBU SQ UO QTPUTT © » 
esodiy TTTM 3xeqQUOD HuTuTequoD e 40 yUMYO dnosH sTYyQ OF JTWTT pexTs Auy » 


¥ 
-dnosgauz.seqg Aq petteo ATuo ATTew10u SF STUL » 
°4xeQU0D ©3714 dno.6 © se HUNYD AUe.LMS eT jo JeEpuTeUe1 eYR UEdO x/ 


/*s pto / 
$(_ yxeQUODdN0ID) dnosQMpUT dia Use7xe 
/~ “PUPDIANd pue dnorgyeso[D eeg :SUCTITPUCS YOUN +» 
*puspp Ang pue dnosgMesolo STTeS ysnf STUL 


g ebeg W55T QB6T PZ:PT E Ady 


*dnozomzers Aq poqseqs dnoi6 © pug ,/ 


/~ seu ‘edAqqns ‘ezrsgdnos6 ‘edAydnos6 ‘quered = ,y/ 
$(, yx@equogdnosg ‘CI ‘ONOT ‘AI ’» 3xeqUODdNOID) dno1.NMzWeIS dia Us98eq7xo 
/= “Gnosguuedg ‘SeqAgeITamMadI ‘APEPINIANd SES :SUOCFATPUCS AOU + 
*dnosguesolTD HuF{ Teo e10jeq 
4xeQU0D Quered SYR SSED0E JO YXOAUOD ETA SPEOOTTeOp 3, USEOp JSETTeS AWNSSW +s 
*POZTIVTATUF OU Qnq set Teo Aq pe_eooTTe emjoniQAs 3xXeqUCS MOU FWNSSW + 


¥ 

eure tqQUCTTO<-queted = SUIeIAWUSTIO<-MOU SJOS TTeO dnoszmuedo SUL » 
*dno.zgupug GuyTteo Aq ysTUTZ pue sx 

peqseu eq eta ueq Aeu szeTTeo egy “dnoswyuedo sTTeo pue ‘se jAgeqTImMddI ¢ 
TA GI edAaqns eq Se {TIA ‘AP—PHAN_ efA szepeey xAUNYO SG} SOIT4M STUD ¢ 


¥ 

*SpUuyTy WUereZZTP JO OMAxXyU e S,IT JT UATIIA UT y 

sseq * (s)edAq Wadd ,SWeqUOS eq} 3e QUT & ST Iv 40 IsIT & Jo edAQqns eUL 
¥ 


‘qI edAaqns eq + sono pe seu [Te sepnTouy @zTSdno16 euL, °YXeQUOD peAsou , 
e Buyuedo ‘(Iw 40 ‘aOdd ‘Wa0d ‘ISIT Atqeumseid) dnow6 e Buytat4a 3135 y/ 


/~s {uozatsod ettz} 3TOTT ‘mBU ‘OTTZ ¥/ 
S(ONOT ’» 3xX@EQUODdNOID ‘YLag) TaIMUeGO daaI wiezxe 
/~='PPO SF ATWTT JF NOMI LINAITD ¢ 


do} STU3 UT IW) 40 ‘ISIT ‘WYO, Guo ATUO ANO ORT4M OF PEMOTTE SF JOTTEO SUL » 

*GnNo.QMeSOTD HuTT Teo E10jeq 3xXeQUOS SYR EReOOTTeep 3, USEOp 4AOETTEO AWNSSV + 

“POZTLETATUF You ynq seTTeo Aq pezeooTTe ein{onszYs 3xXeIUOS MOU AWNSSW s 

*Aqyoedeo ystp Aq ATuo pepunog y 

©q 0} UMOUYIOXIONZS UT SSeq °3xXEQUOD STOR UF eAep HuyAT4A 403 uoTITSOd 

SLTZ TeoThoT eyA uo ATUTT szeddn 10 eousz e sesoduy Hse ,ITWTT, SUL » 
°2xeQU0D eQT4M e uedo ’gndqno s0z uedo e[TZ & USATD ;/ 


IWMI JOPI TH 


/~ “MUNG dnosz6 eq seJeTdoo pue yxeQUOD peyseu ENA SESOTO dnosgMpUT 
*SQUSQU0S euy HuTAT4AM 4A0J AXeQUOD peqsoUu e suedo pue sepesey dnow , 

egy seqyia ATTeoTzeuoqne dnoswwzteys ‘dnoswwpug [Te usetTR “SHUN Sz 
qno eqT4m ‘dnos9m7e3s TTeO ‘(TWD 40 ‘dOUd ‘WOT ‘LSIT) dnos6 © e774 Of 


¥ 

*QxeQU0DdN0.+) ET SSOTO 02 GnoswzMeSOTD ESN USTQ “HUNYO YORo x 

soy {puppand »{seqige3tamdaI} APHPDING} 40 wAang seuATe TTed ‘dnosguuedo 
JO gJaIMUedO VTA yxeQUOODdNe.N Andyno ue uedo 02 SF GUHYOS [TC1AOAO CUL ¢ 


% 
"OPCS JOLIE OTJTOOEdS y 
TA 103 SOd Ase ’eseo QeyR UT “YOMN Sod umye1 Ae SoUTQNOA ESeyR JO TIV + 


¥ 
“OTQepyoAeun seuypjewos St O/I Tet Wed , 

QeUR Adeoxe ‘eSeO 10110 EY UT SIOSJJO OEpPTS ou eaey OF AXQ SOUTQNOA ESOUL 
jto1ie ue Jeqje uO sseid 9,U0g *S@epoOd 40110 GJAT HOCUS PTNOYS AUETIO »¢ 
‘OTTZ GQ 03 SuTQT4a seuo ATuO eyQ e1,ASNR AWNSSW SEUTQNOA ESeU] 


¥ 

*Buppeyo so1se pue butpped erxtT » 

Atveotyewmogne sHutuA op osTe 1[1T,AeqL “euyA Jo peoye YF ACW] 9,USBOP AETTES » 
SY} USYA ENA OZTS AUNYO S AOS 02 HORE Ssoooe WoOpue. [TTA SOUTINOA SSOU] 
¥ 


“4 eg W3sTt SET OZ:ET © Ady 


B-74 


S$  Jedsy00TXNPOX eUTJEP} 


x ¥ 
(opta exe AoqA ueTR 4eT TER ere STextd esey3) Tr/or :002 X OZE og 
:sepou Aetdstp ebjuy y eq 4 


‘auSteqjextd/uapra jextd oFjes 4 qoedse 5 
Textd eq squeseide: qoedsyA/joedsyx uoTq_oeaz sedoid ey], :sopTqze1 qoedsy o/ 


T Teva Suisere 
/-e ° Wsepeg seg ‘s7TEPped s Sujal Gere usb Buypoous 
os 


uni 63Aq eq} ST ,,TunyezAgdn,, ‘souetd Seu F 
92 peTitdde ut 4ObTe @ UOTSSeudil0D JO GOTO) x 


/,onbTuqoe, Huyxsew JO SOTO » 
[| pomnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nn nnn nen r nero r enn nnseene= sepeeqaepAt ---------- s/ 








Ka 10s “40, A, JAIONEN AGOU AI SUTJOPH 
19a Ws“ aWs 4D, CINCH SHWD AI SuTsepH 
Ds Me ads sS,JGIONEN LUdS AI euTsepH#t 
sZe “0Se ede 10, JGIONEM ISAC AI SuTzopH# 
Ga aWe eWy 0D, JAIOTEN GWVUD GI SUTZEPH 
sda aWs aWe 0D, CIONEN AYAD CI SUTJOPH 
10, 4H,’ WW, ’,G,JQIONEW GHAT AI SuTsop#t 
wWe Ge o'Te cI JGIONEN WAIT GI SuTJOPH 
wt’ JIT/FIT, OCPNTOUTH 

JTpuStHt 


at’ x35/sotqdes6,, epnTouti#t 
H X29 SOIHdWED JOpUs TH 


TTPUdHE 
wd’ SOTTdN0/ZzZT,, SpNTOUTH#t 
H WATIGNOO JOPu TH 


‘uyewop 9 OTiqnd eqy UT ST EreMQJOS STUL » 
Sy OFUCIQDeTA ’ See ee fon ene arene ae 


HWaATI JOpus tH 


Tt eq wuqit 9e6T SZ:bT € Ady 


HaaI zTpuc# 
/« INMAA OU y/ JT pucH 


‘()puspinand daa usz68qxe 

:() seqge3tJMaal dddI Us03x0 
:(Q) IPPDINd dAdI wzep.e 
!()2109Nd adaaI Usz!8eqxe 

‘ ()dno Jan4es0 1D ddaI us083xe 


t()dno JOMITEAS dAaI U10zxe 
‘() garmuedo gaaI U103x0 


/+ INMAI 20U y/ ESTE} 


Js 3xeQqQU0D y/ 
(y axequcndnos0) PUpDANE gar, waea%® 
/s “seq kgeqTJMaal TA nm soqkq Jo JEqUMU ,OZTSYIO, USIQTIA » 
3, USC YUSTIO JF AO °ASATZ PSTTEO 3,uUSeM apPDINA 3T BOW INAI'D » 
SLT SG UT SEZTSP ¢ 
eu SqeS pue »peq seoH sTqQ ‘UMOCUNIOAIONZS = OZTSYO S,AUNG Quem JI » 
*4Qxequojdno.+) , 
eqepdn pue ‘pepeou zt 03Aq ped @ eQT4n ‘2UNID QUeLMS eYR eVeTdIKD »/ 


/s sezkqu "CJEPy / 
‘(QNOT ‘ys BLAA ’ s dsalaeyanadg) asaKena Liat daa u209 {xe 
/+s °0 > seqkgu , 
JT JO ‘ASATJ PETTEO 3, USA Ip—PNAN, JF AO ‘OZTSyO S,xUNYS AUELIND 
en 4 oat = S,3xeqU0QdNOA) eq AOTJAeAO Sn STU) 37 BOWNT INAI'D » 


6 eed W33F OG6T HZ:ST © Ady 


‘003 ‘euetd yseu ey ut sebseur Qt “TION 3,UST Jueunbze ,7seu, C4} JI + 
*TunyeqAgdi> == uoTsseidmoo<-uppUK JT pesseidioD ‘ejep »~seu pue eueTdaTq + 
UATA AUN AGO S,RATI Ue se deyatg e sqndqgno empeocoid sTuL »/ 


/~ TWdep ‘dewsojoo "qxeqU0D y/ 
!(anxaN =’ COM ’°» 3xOQUCDdNOAD) QIN dig wszws8qzxe 
/= °3XBWOCO O{F1M WATI WAOd Uedo ue 03 UNTO dy & andyno a/ 


/s ‘wT ESN JT SHUTUTEM JOETTGIOO 
906 nq ‘sedi; perpsep eq] eve -- EOMn ‘UOTSseidmoD ‘buTIseEH +/ 
/» wyeqeGed ‘uapTmebed ‘sopogquezedsues3 ‘uoTsseidmoo ‘buyyseu y/ 

* (caoM “CaOM ‘QUT ‘QUT ‘QUT 
/» demtq *IPHOC y/ 
*, dewnta ons ’, zepeopdey jt”) PHNAITUI daaI usw {xe 

| /e' (0 ’0) wey aseqjo (A ’x) uoTtyTsod & Jes 03 4O 
‘OTAQTT BA GoNpes 02 ‘JeTTeUS seueTqU Sexe 03 *6-e ‘sHuyQ 30s Aue EpT.BAd 
03 Quen nok JT sepeerdepnta eq OUT ATOeATpP e103s ‘STR BUTTTEO 40IZV + 


§ 

“(T °T) 03 weg S205 QT ‘ESTKIEMIO ‘SOpou 

Ketdstp e6Stuy 7 esouy uo peseq (j00edsyA ‘qoedsyx) sjes sta? (00% ‘069) + 
40 ’(00z ‘089) ’(oow ‘oze) ‘“(ooz ‘oze) st (aubteHeSed ‘uaptmebed) ZI » 
3 


‘qeur10z ATI Aq pexztnbe se ‘uose 3,UST MoyregseqAg<-deuntq Jt WM INAITD + 

- g ,» moytogseqig<-deuntq = a Quen noX soumsse 9] “W;ded 

pue ‘smoy ‘MoywegsezAg spreTs dewqtd eq wosy soueTqu pue ‘y ‘mM S206 STUL » 
‘em3oTd WATT GeWATA-TIng @ 403 prcce. szopeeydeyAT, & SZTTIETITUL +/ 


IWMA JOPI TH 


(ce1gegtids(s axa) ’ (eouspecesgeqt ids) Joezts “ITudSTAI ’3xequ0o) ANd 
\  (peageaqtads ’3xeQU0d) LydSINd SeuTJep}# 
(e6.20yQS0p(, aLxG) ’ (eHseyAseq)joezTs ‘ISAC aI ‘xe qU0D) 13nd 
\  (aBzepasep ‘3xe{U0D) ISAqqNd SuTsepH 
(azqutod(,. atxa) ‘’(azjuTod)s0ezts ‘away aI ’3xequ00)1D3Nd 
\ (azqutod ’3xe,uU00) qywand euTzeEpH 
(appwq(, ZLxa) ‘ (2epeegdeyatg)szoezts ‘CHW AI ‘3xe3U0>) 1INg 
\ (apHmq ’3xe U05) CHNAINd SuTsepH 
/» ‘MOTeq Sy “UNTO » 
OWVD JO "TNdS ‘ISAC ‘aWaD ‘CHWA B SIT4A 02 MIAN TTeES ASME :eI0N ¢/ 


| gnrnnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnnen ee seuTqnoy q4oddng 2637 4M WATI ---------- e/ 


/+ pe_oeTes s1eqsT6he.1 10To> seddn pue 1eM0T »/ 
/» UO peumy st HuyToAS 4oTOO sueeu o19ZU0U s/ S@ATQO@ CaOM 


/= pucces/sdeqs 09 = HeEgT ‘eVest BuTToOAD «0TOO ,/ e721 CaM 
/-~ S2Bq Q G10AS ‘ESN GIMQNJ 410J persesos v/ Teed qdyam 

} qona3s jopedA 

/= °“AUNGO OND & UT e1038 ST ebuew VW +/ 

| prmn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn ene e renner nnn nnn nnnnn ebuey) ---------- o/ 


/= “DONOT @ SE pereToep ST QUEQUOO S,xUNq SUL »/ 
/~= “AUN SYD B UT Pesojs ST SEpoyc-VI0gGMeTA eHTUY GLOPOUMID V »/ 
[ponnnen nn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn neem nnn nn rnin poy QUOdMETA ---------- e/ 


€ ehed {UIT SO6T SZ:PT € Ady 


‘@ouepese.1ge3T ids G@omMn zepedéAQ 
/+ “MUNG LYdS & UT petojs sT sousepeceigeqtads v +/ 
[ prrn nn nnn nn nn nnn nn none n nnn nn nnn enone QOUSPOOCOAgSRFAdG ---------- e/ 


‘eBseynsed { 
/» OWUT 9103S 03 seueTdQTq WOTYA SQSeTSS y/ ‘4xseWeueTd CsOMN 
/+ Taeuetd 103 eep eueTdytq yinejep y/ : 
/= UOFAeUTASSp oAUT seueTdATq eo.mos .1e{QeOS 07 MOY s/ 
/+ e404 9 e103s AOUSASTSUCS 103 ‘CgaSNNN +/ 
/~ e0mnos TeuyHy10 eq UT seueTdqTq # »/ ‘yqdep aLxan 
} Jon JepedsQ 
/= “UNG ISad & UT petojs sT ebse_AQSeq V +/ 
| pnnnnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nner nner nnn nnnesnncressee e61EYASE ---------- «/ 


/s (stextd) sejeutp.1z00. ,/ SK °x% WaOM 
} 3on23s zepedsy 
/~ “MUN gyay B UT pe1ojs ST GzqwUTOd V +/ 
| pomnen nn nnn nn nn nnn nn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nner nennnncsece= dzqwyod ---------- e/ 


9 WRGequYxXe_ eUTJEpH 
/= ‘pretzAetd Tenp/a xew e6juy QUeLIND ‘WYa UT seueTcaTq Jo szequmu UNmTxXEH y/ 


/-=°S3TQ ZT MOT UT GOW Wore SITq F TITA y 


*IB3STHO1-1OTOO B JO UOTSIOA WY eOTuY x/ ‘%40TOD COM JepedAQ 


€ AeqsTbey10[CDj0eZTS eUuTsepH 


/ ° (a2qstGeys0T0D) JoezTs Jo peeysuT AueAsUCS STU ESN »/ 
SzeysTbeysojtop { 
/-"pusqxe upTS 3,U0M Bb <<, OS SHLAGN SEC ISMN s/ ‘enTq ‘ueces6 ‘per ALAA 
| } Rona3s zepedAR 
/= ° (qoee s07hq ¢) sueqstbeyso0Top zo Aerte pexoed e st um dy VW +/ 
| pram nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn nn nnr nner nee ABASTHSYAOTOD ---------- v/ 


(T >> & << (ct + (m))) (4) SegAgnoy euTzop# 
/-°stextd UT UAPTA egy wWosz ‘AOL e UT SejAq Jo sequMU ey SeqnduCD se7AgAOY ;/ 


‘sepeeqdeyata { 

/» stextd uy ezts ,e6ed, eo.mos ,/ ‘quSteqebed ‘uaptmebed daom 

/» A/x szeqamu TeuoTze21 & ‘oTWZe41 Qoedse ,/ SqoedsyA ‘joedsyx grLAqGn 
/s AoToo,, quesedsue.Q ,/ : 


/~ seueTdqtq eo.mos # y/ 
/+ SHeuy styA 103 uoxz {Tsod ,/ 
/- stextd uy qufteq ¥ GIPTA seqse1 ,/ 


/~= “MUNG GHW & UT peicjs st sepee_dewtg W +/ 
TT oedsyo0px0pgA euTsepH 


OT Qoedsy00PX0POX SUTJEPH 
IT qoedsywoozxepgA euTzepy 


zg eed (wait 966T SZ:bT eC Ady . 


B - 76 


H WATI J TPUSH 
IWMI J TPUSHE 


‘()xa0G3e9 daaI use jxe 
‘()awNDIeD dadaI Usejxe 


/sINMddI 20U;,/ SSTEH 


/+ ‘se6pe ey} worz s10TOO Querzedsues3 BuTTTTz Aq seu o7ne, Ue SECIS 
‘osse PSU 10g °10TOD UeUeEdsUeIR WO1j xSeU e 87ee19 “ IOTOD{USAeUSUBLLSEPP{SU x 
JOq “Seu szetnHue_oer & ORCSAO ‘OUOPPIS 107 “ASEWSePPISU =| Huy sew x 
esSoyM SWATI Sutpee. useyA sysew ejee10 03 (s)euTynos ppy [dal] »+/ 
/- EzTszynq ‘2ezzNq ‘IpHuq ‘sem ‘deuntq *qxeqU0D «y/ 
‘(ONO ‘s SLAG ’y Jopeoydewatd ‘» ALA ’y Gewata ons ’, yxequopdno4 
/°Kisog ‘deunyq S,ueTTO eqy petsTpow OA, IWHTU AAT ‘STTeF AGOGICO JI + 


(-q6noyy ‘@TTZ uNq & Jo ESNeceq Eq PTNOD) ‘e10u Sey STTS SUF JT WOUUA INAITD + 
SUINVOI QI ‘seueTd seueTgoigxey 03 dn UITA STTZ & ETpUeY UES KGOEISD + 


¥ 

°(Z » SPAOMMOI’ IPAQ) OZTSpeyoegxepW] » Z > OZTSINGQ JT YOUN ANAITO Suamnj{et AI ys 
*“SMO1 PESSEIGIOS OM3 403 WOnous ehiel sejjnq @ Speou ZGOGISD +s 

¥ 

“SUOTE Seu S,28TTeS eq} SereeT ysnf xGoMIeD (1seNSEPIsU =| Suyyseu’apHM) + 
3I ‘ouetd ysew Aue dys TTT“ XG0dI°D “TIAN = ASC JI 

-yseu Aq 03 pequtod 2zezznq eq} ut ‘Aue zt ‘ouetd 4seul O} 801098 ZGOGISD + 


¥ 
-deujtq uofeuT3sep egy Jo szted peyonoqun (40Topqueredsuey UIA) TITS » 
ao AlTequozyicy ebeuy pei0ys eq} dTIO prnoo xGoGIeD ‘emjnz oq UI [cal] +s 


¥ 
“peuTzep 20U ere A‘ pH JO QUOTA EG} OF STOXTd “SPp10M UT » 
TIPTA O21 EYQ EANduoS of ATUO QF sesN XGOGICD °A* ApH SSN PTHOYS 4OTTSD 


% 
*moqsegse7Ag<-deuntq wqTa ee.6e ysra (Spi0M #) TAPTA MO POTTS SUL » 
‘TunyezAgqdi pue euoNdiD sumAtscble uoTsseidmoo spuseqjszepun A[Uo 3 “STpUueY » 


g eg wut 9e86T Sz:sT © Ady 


9, USCOP QT UOCTSeAUOD & Wiojted OF poyse JF WOW LNAITO SUNQO4 ZGOGICD ¢ 


‘peqonojun deuntq eq Jo qed woj30q ey BSuyAeeT 10 eo.mos eR 30 qued , 
mwoqj0q eqq Suppzesstp ‘smo. (Smoy<-deuntq ’Y<-APHUK)NIW 8G} Speet STUL » 
-peqonoqun ere Mdzj 4SeT ENR ‘SeueTdRTq e1ou sey dewnTq JI * (Sseuo 4epi0 
MoT) seuetd mez QsiTJ speer sTuR ‘deuntq ueyR seuetTdyytq Sicul sey STTZ JI » 
-deuntq ey SupAecoTTees szepfsuoco pue ‘suoTsusuyTp deunjyTq » 

uaTA (seueTqu ’Y ‘SptoyMo.) SUOTSUSITp ApH eredO0S ASATZ PTNOYS AO TED » 


¥ 
“Buysseidmocep , 
pue BuyAeeTsequy-ep ‘deujtq S,QUeFIO © O{UT AGOd 8,NATI we speer A0G0GI09 +/ 


/= sheysopoond ‘deysojpoo qxeqU0D oy / 
‘(s BEXGN = ’» SOM ’» 3xeQUOODdNO.+)) qYIDICD dIadI wz38qxe 
/~=°peer ATTenQoe SiEeqSTHbe1 A0OTOO Jo szequmU EY OF ETQeTACA JER xy 
S}0S GvDISD “PTOY 03 eoeds sey sET TES EY} SuSAsTHey1oTOD JO seqUMU eR 
sploy 3euy STAeTAeA ALAGN e 03 sequTod e se uy pessed sT sHeyso[oond 
*JOASTHOA AOTOO AFC OT B OQUT 
pexoed entq ‘uee.6 ‘pei jo Gore SiTq F :deul A0ToOo ebHjuly ue 02 SRAGAUOD STUL x 
"4xeQUOD peel WATI WeOd uedo ue wo1z AUNYO qYWD & QnduL »/ 


IWMI JOPI TH 


T+9T SOUBTGOISXeW SUTJOPH 
/-'yseu @ sntd seuetd 9T 03 dn WATA ETTZ & STPUEY UD XG0GIED +/ 


((azquyog) zoezTs ‘qzyuTod(, aLxG) ’3xe QUOD) sezAgpeey zal 
\ _ (azjutod ’3xe U00) gyanjeD eUTJepH 
((zepeeqdepnta)zoezts ‘apHuq(, dLxd) ’3xeqU0o) sezAgpeeygal 
\. (apHmq ’383U00) CHRAIeD SUTJEPH 
/+ “MOTeEq SY “HUNYO » 


[prnnrnnene nnn nnn nner nn errr rrr seutqnoy j41oddng sepeey WHTI ---------- s/ 
IWMGd JTPUSH 


‘()XG0d3Ng djaI usz]87xe 
:()awwo3nd daaI ws087x%© 
‘() aPHNGATUL ddaI wsz687xe 


/vINMCI 20U,/ eSTOH 


/= EzTsjnq ’swwezINq ‘upHuq ‘ysew  ‘dewntq *9xeQU09 «/ 
S(ONOT ‘» BLA ‘» sepecudewatd ‘s HLAd ‘ys Gewatd ONS ’, Jxequogdno+ 

)XGOdINd daaI wrww68zxe 

/=s °“Tunyezkgdip < uoTsse1dm0d<-prHg 

JT 30 ’ (moysegsezAg<-deuntq) eztTspespegxey > EZTSjNnq y 

JT 40 ‘qQdequyxey < soUeTdU<-zpHg JT AO ‘SeueTqU<-spHg > YAdeq<-deunTq » 

3T 40 ’ (m<-azpHMg) seqAgmoy =| AoysegsezAg<-deuntq 

JT Jo ‘Y<-apHuq =| SMOY<-deuntTq J} WUT INAID » 

§ 


y eheg WWIIT 9861 SZ:bT © Ady 


/euX TEUIOQUTNQUT,, OPNTOUTH,/ 
/eut OSCQUOTITNAUT,, OPNTOUTH,/ 


yt UOFATNQUT/UOTIINAUT, SpNToUuT# 


ult’ deufer/seotacp, SpnTouti#t 
wd qUeAS{nduT/seoTAsp,, SPNTOUTH# 
ul’ JeUTa/SeoTASp, SPNTOUTH 


[ey SUB{XOSOP/SOTACAQTT,, SPNTOUTHy,/ 
/eyQ SOP/SEFACAQTT,, OPNTOUTHy/ 


/eyt WoAsno/exrempsey,, OPNTOUTH,/ 
wp eatads/sorades6,, epnTouT# 
ull’ 3x03 /soTydesb, SpNnToOUT# 

ut’ sraket/sotades6, Spn[ourt#t 

ut sosoeung6/sopqdes6,, OpNTOUT# 
Jew’ SATRQUT/erempszey, SPN[OUTHt,/ 
wt eseqxs6/sopydesb,, OpnTouT# 

ud MBTA/sotqdes, SPNTOUTH 

ud’ qodgses/sopydet6, epnTOuTi#t 


ut’ GtTo/soTade.b, epntouts 


vy eGeg UITenQUT SO6T OT:ST © Ady 


wd’ sTe6/sofydes6,, epnTouT# 
yd’ S3tqeup/esempsey,, SpNTOUTH 
wt Aetdstp/sopydesb,, epnTouri#t 
ud’ teddoo/sofudesb,, eEpnTouT# 
wt OPTI T0O/sopydesb, SpnTouT#t 
eeeey/ 


Jet’ 3TTAC/erempszey,, SPNTOUTH,/ 
wt xz5/sopydes6,, epnTout#t 


/~ sepntouT ebyure zeyQ0 Aue e10j3eq H°X3D ACNTONI SAVMTW +/ 
ut’ SPETe/OOXS,, EPNTOUTH 


ut’ Asowsu/oexe, SPNTOUTH 
ut’ OF/O0xe,, EPNTOUTH 


ut’ Sqdn.1zeqUuT/oexe,, OPNTOUT#E 


ul’ SOOTASP/OOXS,, SPNTOUTH 
ul’ Sysez/Ooxe,, EPNTOUTH 


yl’ Sqt0d/oexe,, EPNTOUT#F 
yl’ SOT AeAQTT/oexe,, EPNTOUTH# 
wl’ SISFT/OOxe,, EPNTOUTH 
ut’ Sepou/oexe,, SPNTOUTH# 
wt’ SedA3/oexe,, EpnTOuT# 


‘Ammp uy } TeAsUTT 3On4s 
¢ Aum’ 


:{ 

‘{ : Pp quT } QTUTdoo Qon14s8 

‘{ ‘Amump 3uT } Ast{Ad yon.13s 
‘{ ‘Aumump ut } 3st Idoon 3on414s 

‘{ :Auump jut } astidop jonys 
‘{ ‘Aummp Quy } STQeLTTIOO Aon14s 

‘{ ‘Aummp 3uzt } eqtidsa Jonas 


‘{ :‘Ammp quy } uoybey 3on14s 


/s 
*SEMION.AYS SSeyR OF SUTINIOd esn ATuo se Huot se eyes ST STUL » 
‘@TTGuOS ueYyM SHuTUAEM ,GNVONAAS peuTjJopuN, SpTOAe STUL x 

*QNnO peq_UeUIIOO ee MOTO SEpN[OUT SuUlOS ESNeced SUOTITUTIJEp Auumq ;/ 


/~e SAIDNACNAdSC-AATIAGNOO »/ wt’ SOTTGMIOS/JZF,, OPNTOUTHE 


/euegueeesseUeeeseesSRESESEESUESESESeEEseessevesesevessssessesessversesss/ 


/ / 
(s “seQgndmoo ebjtuy-e10poumloD SY} AOJ UOTSIOA STUL y 
/s ‘ufemop OTTqnd eq} UT ST exreNQjOS STUL / 
- ‘Sqly OTUOAQCeTA ‘AeyS exeqS pue UuosTCW Auer Ag v4 
ls ‘JOT TamoS unoA 10J 5/ 


/~= POAOTTeA ©q PINCYS TOTUM ,,° wT Tdw00/z3T, STTZ AITITq@eq40d eq] sntd +/ 
/* 98/2z/T “SOTTJ J2epeeq pepTAcad-ebyuy Jo SQOT SpnToul “Y’TTen{uy a/ 
/uRRERESERESTEETEESESTEESESESESFESTVESESTSESTEST SEL TSSE TESTES TW ITENQUE ¢s/ 


T eg qiremuy 9e6t oT:sT © Ady 


B- 78 


H LOIdINd 3 TPuSH 
Ivedd JTPUSH 


!()3°TaaNd ‘ood uz087xe 
$() 449331 dagaI w1z983xe 


/eIWMCA 20Uy/ SSTOH 
/= EZTsznq’szezznq ‘dep1s0[oo ‘Hebed ‘mobed ‘wq ‘OLTZ s/ 


S(QNOT ’s GLAG ’» CGUOM ‘CHOM’CUOM ’» Gepwatd 3on-Qs ‘ONOT)IOTAIMd IOOd WiSeqxe 
/ eeeeves¥ES¥¥ESEUEESESESESUUESEUUSEOEEULSSUDESERVEEESESREESEverereeeeyesess#/ 


VE * (0°076/33T/ 9 Y'OTH/Z3T/ 80S) ¥/ 
/» ‘STTeO xeeg pue eqT4y SuyzpuruTu 403 Tnyesn st ‘aie Aes ‘sezznq ebsreT V s/ 
/* *BuT3qT4im dn-peeds 03 ebe103s Axesodue3 se pesn sejzzng ,/ 
7 SUTI ueos pexjoed euo 103 YHnouse Htq eq prnoys sezjng + 
¥ ¥ 
/s ‘yeu OU JOJ TION == Seu uy ssed »/ 


/s CLT gal ue oqut emjoqtd e ng »/ 
J eRURRREUUESURSEGEESUEESEDERESERESERT ESTERS TEES EEE EREEEESEEEY POTCINd eevess/ 


! (pToa) 449331 daaI usz98eqxe 
/ eeCuEUNEUESUUESSUSSUUSEUUEEUUSEUEEUESUVEEUSEEUEEUESERESEEEDEEUSEEEEEEEEEESS/ 


/* O18Z 0} 3T SJESE1 puUe Opodo 40.118 JJF ey SUIMQeY ,/ 
J eueUUVOUEUEEUUEEEUUESEUESERECSSEUUSESESES ESE EEEeevesexesEEEE TAZFF1 seneey/ 
IWMdI JOPI TH 

J TPUSH 


ut UATT/JFF, SPNTOUTH 
H WATI JOpus TH 


J TPUSH 

yd’ AOTTGHOS/JZT,, SpNTOUT# 

H UTIIGNOO JOPUZ TH 
/eveueeus¥GuUse¥SEUUSEEUUSESUVESUUSEUUSEUUESESESEUSESESSEEVESEEeEEEEESEsES/ 


/s x/ 
i *zeqndu0o ehTuly-eicpoumlog SQ JOJ UCTSICA STUL 7 
¥ ¥ 
/s -uTewop OFIqnd eu UT ST ezeMQzZOS STU] y/ 
js *SqQuy OTUOAQSeTY_ ‘AeUS eASIS pue UosTtu0W Auer Ag af 
¥ ¥ 
/+ 99-uUel-EZ “O'MQIT/JIT/ 9 WWATT/JIT/ CCS ‘“WATI ue se sqndqno ,/ 
/ ‘ebTuy SUR UO Nv UT deul soToo e pue depwatg e ueATQ *()30TAINd ¢/ 


Je CREUEEUEEEESEREUESESUEESESERUTUEESESEUUEEEESEREEEEESSE ESS yqoTdand y;/ 
H LOIdINd Sutzep# 
H LOIdINd Jopus t# 


T ebeg q'qoTdgnd 9g6T OT:bT © Ady 


sTPUSH 
/+ IMMA x/ FTPUSH 


‘()mowrpedun ood usz687xe 
‘ () aowppoeg SNOT Us083xe 


/+ TNA 30U y/ eSTo# 


/+ seqkaasp ‘sezfgous ‘qseqd ‘eomogd ,/ 

: (aOM ‘CREOM ‘vy ALAM ‘vs FLAG) MOwWDPedUN 100d utEqxXe 

/~+ °* (20120 OU) aSTWa SUNQE4 QF ’OESTAIOUIO ¢ 

‘aNUL sunje1z pue sdojs Aq ‘seqzAgysp EZTS sejzjnq UCTIeEUTASEp SU 

UNLIOAO P[NOA UNA & JF AO SoeVAQGoUS QTUTT S,eounos SY} PEeeoOxe PTNOM AT JI 

, * (noypjoeg OAUT QUEM eT OZTSMOI 

eq} ’°e°T) sezXq sezfgqsp seonpoid 37 [TUN suequUTod UuOCTJeUT Sep puE 
eo.mos ey} buyyepdn ‘Mo1 suo syoedun ‘seTqeyszeA UAINIOd 07 SUALNIOd UPATO »/ 


/» @z~gMot  ‘Aseqd ‘eommogd ,/ 
S(ONOT ‘xs HLA ‘es FLAG) MOwWDOed ONOT ut]8qxe 
/= “OZTSpEyoedxep| COS y 
‘mot pexoed eq} 103 YGnoue ebiel sft sezjnq UCT IeUTISEp SIWNNSSV + 
“Mot pexoed eq jo soqzAq UT EZTS eYR SUANQEY ‘S1eqUTOd UOT JeUTYSep pue , 
eoimos ey Bbuyzepdn ‘mot euo sped ‘seTqeTseA WAINIOd 03 SUSINIOd UeATO +/ 


/= Sedky, queunbsy qATA UoTZeseTOeq UOT_OUNY seTpueY 4seTTAGUCD y/ IWMdI JOP TH 


( (24 << (42T+(eztsnos)) ) + (eztgno4x) ) (ezTgno1) ezTspexpegxeW eUTIOP} 
/» °seqkq Jo M01, & Jo OZTS pexoed esed Ys10M SYR SojNdIOS CxS STU], v/ 


zTPUSH 
ul’ AOTTGN0S/ZZT,, OPNTOUTH 
H UATTIGNOO JOPUus TH 


[gonennnnnnnn nn nn nn nnn nn en nn nn nn nennn enn nn nen nnnnnnnn en ne nen en ee nenenee ’ 
*JegnduoS eHhTuy-e10pouMIoD SY} AOJ UOTSAGA STUL x 


9 
‘uTewop OTTGQnd eq UT ST GxeMQJOS STUL » 

‘squy OTUO..Q0eTY, ‘Meus eAeIS pue UOST.u0W Aries Ag , 

¥ 

*sqT@pped s,oew Aq peqesoued Hutpooue sures , 

em ‘,TunyeqAgdin,, wqAT4A0He ucTsseiduoo uni eyR SQUCWS[GIT S[Npou STUL ¢ 


¥ 

98/72/T * JBSSOIGMOD-e}eg 103 syepedAQ HUD s 
H wWDOWd SuTzep# 
H UDOWd JOpus TH 


T ebeq q'seyoed 986T OT:tT © Ady 


B-79 


!() 207e00TTY -3Ge34gn zepedAR 
/+ IWMGd 20U y/ OSTSH 


/» & (()s) (x aExaN) 34 ST 40 ’() (+) ¥ aLAGN :@TAQS D Tensn egy tEpTsucD 
*sueumy 02 [nyHuTuecu , 


edk3 Ss, 107eooTTe exeu 02 exoge s,jepedA3,, OM} pesn GM MOY SOTION :Sd v/ 


/+ *(exep deuntq 203) Axousu dtu uy SQeooTTe =x 
skeate 3Smm Ay ‘empeooid voy ZeooTTe «noA 02 aqd @ ST s0Re00TTE ,/ 
/= *y@WesZ YUSCTIO, TOAST dol eqQ st surety ,/ 
/~ AozeooTTe ‘eure13F ‘uq ‘SITS »/ 
'(~ JOQEOOTTW ‘» SMeAINATI ’y GewATA ONS ‘ONOT)SINQoTQpeey daaI Us+wqxKe 


/+ (‘queumbse sHetz Arcwsu ebtuy ON) °Queumb.e , 


ezTs e serpbes ATuo qoTYA Sunpeocoid UCT eOOTTe Axcusl & 3: 10QeOOTTY ;/ 
‘ (ONOT) 402B90TTW ae7Agn JzepedAy 


IWVMdd JOPsT# 
729g07Agns ZLAGN zepedAQ 


J eeeeRERESEEESESEDESELESEEETESESERTESEEPEVEVEF ERE ESTES ESTES TEES ETERS ES ESS S 
¥ 


- (ezts) (a07e00TTWs) SuTTTeo Aq Wve GeWATA SOQECCTTY 
-SuyTpeet 103 uedo eTpuey ETT © UeATH ‘TTS JAI ue Worz emzoTd © peoy , 


¥ 
SRSESELEFEEESESFSESEVSFEE VES EEFES TEER SEEFELIFESE SELES ELE SY (Jem oT gpecy »y/ 


‘emermair { 
/~ ‘WET O10JS 02 P100@1 STUR OF SPIOTZ » 
ppe ‘SNWD 40 quan °5°e ‘somyo Ajuedoid s6ey70 Aue pees 02 Quem noA JI ,/ 
:( /xqqdequyxey>>Ty/ ze] deysoloo Z40T0D 
‘ APH Jepesydey td 


SSUBATQUST TO SUeAIQUCSTID 
} 2ona3s zepedhq 
/« “STTF STOYM EGA AOJ GUO TeTITUT Ue , 
SZECOTTe osTe eM ‘seTzsedoid aww 9 GHNd PTOW 03 IF ESN pue OTT SY} UT 
pe.requnooue WOT AO ISIT Asweae A0J ORAS GY} UO GSE} JO GUO GRESOTTE OM 
‘OLTZ aaI Ue UT WATI SWUOA Sutpees s0z ,ourexy QueTTO, sno st cuetWATI ¢/ 


| eeeuseseREENENESESUEVENDEDEDEVEUEUEVERESESESESESEDEVEREEEREETEVEReverereseey/ 
/s -zesied QUeOSep-eATSmoe1 @ ATTeT{USSSS ST UCTZIOd 4epeer FAT CUT y/ 


/s s/ 

it "GRNTE 31 WY BOE WNEDOEE TISNKE WY SV SHEE BBN +/ 
¥ ¥ 

/* ‘ufeuop oTTqnd eq} UT SF exremqjos sTur ;/ 

Hy *SqUy OTUCIQSSTA ‘seXeq @aeqg pue ‘MeUS GABAS ‘UOSTLIOW Asser Ag +4 
¥ ¥ 

H IDIddwad FTPUSH ; -98/ez/T “NWa OWT CTT Shewy s03Se1 WATI ue peoy " 
% ¥ 

J Tpuct JUESUEESTEEEEEESETEETEEETESFEEETEETTEFTEESEETFET EET EET TESTES TY T° {oT qpeey vx/ 

H loladwad Sutzep# 


‘ (JemQotgpeey dagI us08qxe H LOIddwad sJepuzt# 


g ebeg W'3OTdPeeL OST OT:BT E Ady Tt ebeg qQ0TdpeEeA OGET OT:bT € Ady 


‘ious dy uTIATA eAecoTTe 03 A1cweu pepusjxe Suppet ¢, 


*peqesotrte Buyeq Axcusu see[S Seog y 
-ALOU PEpUSAXS UT SOQEOOTTeS ‘ezTS susquemet WEG} AOQEDOTIV +/ 


! (NOT) SOTTWAPSTOONGTIDs ELAAN wsz98qxe 
/=°Kenkure ueATAMseao Sq ITA Wey eorze ehseT , 
eZe0oTTe ueyA peeds :esodimg -A1owou Buyseelo ynouRTA ‘OOTTWATUD +/ 


/~= O2TS x/ 
¢(ONOT) COTTWETUDs ALAAN usz]83{xe 
/-°peyeootte Bbuyeq A1cusul 1eeTS Seog x 
*Teuueqo Wad zeqj0 Aue Aq sseooe 40 ‘suezjnq ASTP “peti » 
@q OF SREP [Te ‘eRep punos [Te ‘usee10s uo pekeTdsTp eq OF eAep [Te 103 SSf) » 
‘AOU STQeESSeooe-gIHD UT SEVWEOCOTTe ‘SZTS SsequEUeA 2eqR 40I{PDOTIV e/ 


/+ s6eTtz ‘ezts ,/ 
S(ONOT ‘ONO'T)SOTTWUSUs LAAN eae 
¥ 
“( coosBetz¢** ‘(dewata 3on29s)jJoezts )corTyweu(, dewatd Jonaqs) =Uq 
‘wq, Gewatg 20n44S sg 
[O[GUeXT » 
‘eqZep sesn jo sezkq ,,OZTS, UITA Epou e SEVeSOTTS SOTTWwEY »/ 


IWdd JOPI TH 


/+ °X¥ S8sz pue EZTS Spou SY} PUT UST UES JOFEOOTT ESP » 
H OOTIV Wad JTPUSH sur, ‘e6e103s eyR JO 4Se1 eT 02 4d e Umer UETQ SeqM F ISATJ OT » 
UT Spou eT Jo YAbuUET eyW e10RSs eM ‘SseqAq e1Qxe F HuTQeEooTTe ATTeENQO€ 5 
/~= INMAA x/ JTPUSHE *20RE00T TS weqshs eyq wor Axowseu eq 306 sempecoid s0}2eOOTTe SUL » 
SYAOM SAOYSOOTTS eseyy ACH »/ 
‘ ()eoxqmedy ALAN wsz28qxo 
‘()OOTTWaXds ALAN W1eqxXe 


‘()oottwdtabs. ZLAGN wsezxe JTPUSH 
/()OCOTTWWEay ALAN w1eqxe ud’ AT TGMOS/ZIF,, SpnTouT# 
H UTTIGNOO JOPUs TH 
/» IWMdI AOU ,/ SSTSH 
H OOTIW Wad SUTJEPH 
/e A xf H OOTIW Waa JOPUsTH 
2(¢ ZLAGN)SCe21mey, ALXAN me jpsesdsesedeorseesdesunsveresenceyateeereuecunterateneteet severe steyeeee/ 
¥ ¥ ¥ 
‘(djeermmy = dy, /s “zeQndmoS ehTuly-e10poumOD SY 10} UCTSJOA STUL ;/ 
Op ued JETTeO OS TINN SUINISY , /s v/ 
*2eqUTOd ‘TINN @ EQeooTTe-ep 03 3dIEWW{e 9,UOM :EJeS x / ‘ufemop OTTqnd eq UT ST exreMQzoS STUL »/ 
*PEQeOOTTe OZTS sizequeWAY GOTUM » / “sqQuy OfFUO.QSeTA ‘MeUS eAsqS pue uosT.uKW Arter Ag ,/ 
JOPEOOTTS Ue UYTM peqecotte JT ‘A1owau pepueqxe 40 dyyo seuITS Sqqud »/ /s v/ 
/s DOTTWACSIIONIXH ‘OOTTWAeS@TOONGTUD peppy SSS 9g-uer-¢z »/ 
/s Y°2e[TaMOD epntTour wot gg-uer-7Z »/ 
 (ONO'T) COTTWACCTOONAXHs HLAGN Uteqxe /s O° OOTTWO/3UT ead WosZ pezeery SSS 9g-UBl-9T »/ 
/-' Kenkire UsQATAABAO OG TITA eq} eoue eH1eT x | prmn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn mene e nen nnn nnn cnn coceennn- a/ 
eqecoTTe ueqn peeds :esodmg ‘A1owsw GuyseeTo ANoWITA ‘OOTTWAXA +/ i sefueq) OUM e3eq 7 
3% ¥ 
/= OZTS y/ /3 ‘6uyeosy 2eTdmys 40J ‘pe_eoOTTe EZTS eqy 2OqUOWAY YOTUA SU0REDOTIV +/ 
! (ONO) OOLTW3*ds LAAN Uz0EQxe /s *(Jeerguey ‘()ooTTywey ’()ooTTWaxd ‘()OoTTWaTaD 3/ 
/3°230T Axcusu ypnouse st eid; Suyumsse y /RESEUUSUERESEVEEESTESTSESESEESES TEESE TEsesesssessssesesss TW COT TWUOY vv/ 


zg eheg qOOTTeueL OS6T OT:PT © Ady T ebeg yoorremer 986T OT:PT € Ady 


B- 81 


¢ (euo ‘eureu) eos 
} ( (€ < mdeax<-uq) 3 = IT 

: (apqop’ 9 ’eureu’ dy ‘wq) eq Tt adsq 

‘ (dz) aTa4d 

$(,/e  seueTd ong s0eps0 semM0T HutuTequoo eqTAds--y/, ‘dz) s3uT Ads 
} (T<uqdeq<-mq) 3F 
‘ (dy) aTa4d 
¢ (smoy<-uq ’y/% ------ PIX = W :QEMI0J eEQTAds ----- 0/033) Far acy 
Sapqgop ‘yoez3e 100d 
seureuy ALAGN 


(apygop ‘yoeqqe ‘eureu ‘dy ‘wq)eqtadsgqutig 
‘uty = [Jeuo aixan oF3e3s 


{ 
$ (dz) ama ‘ (dz) anp-d 
2(4°{ ,’d3) zQurady este 

$(4/* eatads zo pug s/ *{ 0000X0 ’0000X0 4 ’d3) Z3UTAdZ Cae 3T 
‘tds =+ Tdsa 
‘tda =+ oda 
{ 
! (dz) and 
Go %% ‘dz) zquTady 
} ((t-smoy<-wq=if) || peeyop) 3F 
S(tdmy ‘odmy °,xI%xo ‘xIz%xo  ,, dz) sautadg 
} (++F ‘smoy<-uqrf : — AojJ 
‘ (dg) aTOA2d 
2 (4/e Goasa ’22eISA x/ “0000X0 ’0000x0 4 ’d3) s3uT Adz 
}(peeyop) JT 
: (dz) and 
‘(spsomu ‘eureu ‘,} = [ptZ]sZ% auomn,, ‘dz) squTadz 
‘(T+d] souetg<-wq(, GyomMn) = Tda 
‘ [d] souetq<-wq(, quomn) = ods 
(o:Pepeoyop) + SMOY<-WqQyZ = SPAOMU 
‘7/moystegse7Ag<-uq = [dM UT 
‘spsoau’f ut 
‘TCM, ‘odmy = 
‘peeqop 100d 
id jut 
seueuy ALAGN 
‘Jy A114 
‘ug, deyatd jonas 


(peeqop ‘d’eureu ’ dj ‘uiq) qT adsq 


{ 
{ 
‘ (dz) armosa ‘ (dz) arpa 
£(4°{ 4’dy) zqurady :euetdpue 


{ 
{ 


z obeg o-oquTudmq 9g6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


£(, eee ee 
{ iqeeaq ¢ (dz) amd *(, °4°d3)s39UTAdy } ESTO 
‘eueTdpue 0705 §(T-sMoy<-uq == fF) ZT 
} (moysegsezAg<-uq 70 Al 
-2 =+ 
S(++dmy ‘4X1T%x0 403) FQUTAdy 
} ‘ 29 = qu) 203 
> (++f ° ‘0 = f) soz 


¢(spsomu ’(, ,:(d+,0,)ed) ‘oueu °, } = [PpTz]oxs% aaomny *dg) 3UT Ady 


| ‘ (d3) aTIO4d 

3 (d’ ,/g-------- SPITZ # ouetd ------ v/y ‘S3) sup Ady 

‘ [d] seuetg<-uq(, GaomMn) = da 
} (dee Sqqdeq<-ug>rd ‘o=d) «s03 
: (dj) anpsd 

‘ (smoyc-uq ‘gyMoytegsezAg<-uq 
*ule cocnoe PIZ = 4 ‘PIX =A: deuntq ----- #/ 4/93) FAUT ADS 
‘SMOY<-Udy (z/MoyszegsezAg<-uq) = Spi0Mu QUT 
:qu’’d Quy 
dit, = 
seureuy FLXEN 
‘Jy FIA 


‘uq, deyatd 2ona3s 
(eueu ‘dz ‘wq) qogquTig 


{ 

‘(,u\,, dx) zquTAdz este { (yx0'ax0’,O%0%, ds) suds (aTHOP) IF 
} ‘dz, aira (dz) ard 
‘aTADOP IOCd OF3e3sS 


T SHA SuTsJopHt 


0 ON SUTJOPFH 

<U' OFPFS/EOCTAIET> EpnTOuT# 

TIAN Jepunt 

<U° TIENQUT/JJT> SOpNTOUTH 

ane ee me terete teen eee re 7 
¥ 

le *zegndo0o ehTuy-e1opoumlod SY} ACJ UOCTSIOA STUL ;/ 

/s v/ 

/s ‘upeuop OFTqnd ey UT ST exeMQJOs STUL »/ 

/, ¥ “Squy OTUOAQOSTY ‘MeysS eAeAS pue UosToW Autor Ag , /, 
+ ¥ 

/s deujtq 10J eIep JO UoTReQUeSe1de1 eHenbue[-D e qno quTud ,/ 

/s +/ 

/s 9° oquT dng +/ 

/s +/ 

[gonna nen nnn nnn ncn nn mene en en nnn nn nen en nnn nn ec eennn nen enennnnes / 


T ebeg ovoquysdmq 9g6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B - 82 


‘( Teufts )u-mjes 
!(seqAgu ‘sz9ezznq ‘eTtTz)peey = Teubts 
(o =< TeubTs) ZT 
‘ (eTTZ) USNTgZeEIT4AMO = TeubTs 
(CTtaM == SITZ) JT 
Je ‘OCF AF YISJ SOT SU IST 
pue ASTP 03 AT USNTF oS ’szezznq eqy Worz ATQO@ATp pees Qe Q,U0P OM / 
20 = TeubTs ONOT 
} ‘seqdqu ONOI ‘407zNdy SLAG ‘TTI Ulaa  (seqdqu ‘sezznq ‘OTTS)Peey ONOT 
| renee n nn nonin nnn nnn nen nn nn nn nnn enn nnn nnn enn enn peoy) ----------- s/ 


‘( Teubts )usmyer 
‘gTeubTs = Teubts 
(o > zteubts) JT 
/-e°OXTAA UTA OTQN0.14 JT UEAD ESOTD ITED +/ ‘(@TTZ) eSOTD = zTeubts 
! (OTT) exeTOepune Tm) = TeubTs 
(CTTaA = SITS) ZF 
‘zjeubts ‘9 = TeuOTSs ONOT 
} ‘©TTZ Uda (ETTZ)ESOCTOO SNOT 
[ prnen nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn ne @SOIND ----------- x/ 


!( (epoumedo ‘eureuettz)uedp )umye1 
/ } ‘epouuedo ONOT ‘eureuelTtj, zeYO (epouuedo ‘eureuet tz) uedo| si 
} Be 8 8858 88 ee ne. ee ee, @eSe@E2@2 28 @ ee e@eaneaeee ued 9 aeeeeeee eee 3 


/-°4ECSD JO EsNedced XEpUIA UeGR YUSIEJITC | 
*USzIT4AM eq 03 seqkq # JO QuNOD y/ {0 = SUFTASIEMM ONOT TeSOT 
/-°93kq ETGeTTeEAe Qxeu Jo xepuyT y/ °0 = X@pUIA ONOT TPCT 


/-°Seqkq UT EzTS sezznq y/ ‘0 = se AGN ONOT TESCT 
STINN = JOJJNGMy ALAA TCOCT 
‘TIAN = Stan UlLdd TeOOT 


OFIeYS TEOOT eUTZEpH 


HAILOW OID Ft# 

/ /-°UOTZeEUeTAXS JOJ GIS SUSUNIOD SOS x/ wt’ OT5/33Ty pill 
FoR Ses eeSaswe ess sese sess ss SSS ses ee eee Sree essen rT es ¥ 

/s »/ 

/, ¢ *szegndmco ebTuy-eucpoumioD SY AOJ UOTSICA STU x / 
. * 

/s ufewop OTTqnd eq UT ST exeMqzjos STUL y/ 

is ‘Squy OJUO.QOSeTA ‘MeyS eASIS pue UoSsT.LIoW ALi0L 4g +4 
* ¥ 


/s *syeeS pue SOYT4M [TeUS SnossumU SeOp TOTUA x/ 
/= Aa S@ TONS Opod A0J AueoTZTUHTS XINO ST pepTaoid dn-peeds seul :©20N ;/ 
/s “SUT S Ae pereyjnq SLTJ SAT4M SUC Atuo ° 0X dn-pepeeds jou prey s/ 


/s ‘ebesn Jo e[duexe ue 10J D°ITTPD0ID Ses s/ 
i 98/€2/T ebeapeg dy peeds O/I ofseuep 9°OI9 sf 
& @ OOOO OOS SSSSCSSSSSSSSSSSSOTFZOOSSOGSSCCeCZFZ@Zee2eeee2ee Teer eeeeeeee2ee2222°2202= B 


T eeg o-o7H 986T zz:0T € Ady 


{ 
{ 
‘qeoaq « (apHop’yoejze ‘eureu dz ’mq) eR; AdsqUTid ‘:ALTudS eseo 
‘yeoaq : (eureu’dj ‘wq) qogquTig :gog eseo 
} are 
‘yqeoiq “SUK = AITIOOP :,0, eseo 
/yeeoiq ‘ON = 4APHOp :,uU, eseo 
Syeorq {Sak = yoegqe ‘grrudsS = edAQ :,e, eseo 
Syeeiq ‘ON = yoegqe ‘/qLIYds = edAQ :,S, eseo 
Syqeeuq ‘gog = edAQ :,q, eseo 
} (0) wor TAs 
(0 = (++303y=0) ) STTUM 
“ON = qoeq qe 
‘god = edAQ 
SA = ApPHOp 
ON = a'TOop 
‘edAQ LYOHS 
‘9 «eyo 
JpHop ‘yore Qe me 
*squz 4ndqno Hutqysosep szseqoereyo Jo GuT43s y/ wy ALAGN 
/~+ Geuntq eq. WATA pezeToosse eureu y/ ‘oureu, ALXAN 
/+ 0% OEATAM TTTA OM OTTZ »/ :dJy Ald 


/+ exep ebeuy eyy supequop y/ ‘ug, dey;atd jonas 
(quy ‘oueu ‘dz ‘mq) dewquT dnd 


T ALIadS SuTsepH 
0 dOd SUTJOPH 


{ 
{ 
‘ (apqop ’z ‘eureu’ dy “uiq) oA FAdSq 
: (dz) aTD4d 


‘(,/e  :seuetd ong sepso seyitq Buyupequoo eqqids--s/,, dz) s3uTAdy 


€ eeg o-oqutadmq 986T ZZ:0T E Ady 


B - 83 


AALIOY OID 3 TpuSH 
/ Xddey szetydnos eyy deo 02 ,/ { } ()Amumaqol) PTOA 
/* ANI OID OU y/ SSTSt#t 


{ 
:( x9096 ) umje1 

‘(epou ‘uoTyTsod ‘eTTz) 27905 = eesgh 
(7- = ee 3T 


{ 

/= 283 OS HO xf '7- = OSH (0 =< OSS) ZT 

‘ (OTTZ) USNTFEITAMD = eegGh 

/¢°SOSeCO JEN{O ENA eEzZTUTAdo 03 AQ UEAD 3, UCP CM ,/ 


€ ebeg o°oTHh $=986T ZZ:0T E€ Adw 


a 
‘XOPUIMMOU = XOPU[A 
/~= UOTATSOd y@1O, winqer ‘Ae »/ ‘X@puIM = 2ees5 
} (euTTs07eEMA => XepurMMeU 4 O =< XOpUTMMOU 
"9 INAWUND LaSaIO = epow) ZT 
} (TINN =i 2033NGN HP STTIM = TTS) JT 


/u0FATSod + XOPpUIA = X@EPUTMMOU ONOT 
‘Z- = ees ONOT 
} ‘epom OQNOT ‘uoTATSod ONOIT ‘STT3 Uldd 
(epou ‘uoyt3Tsod ‘STTZ)272eSD ONOT 
[ faasnaneennseeseoeesnssesssesenacassseaseceresasssseon MOOS) <2 s22=-> +/ 


!( eqtam6 )umjer 
‘(seqhqu ‘sezznq ‘@TT3)e3T4Mq =+ eQT4M6 
(0 =< EQT4mM> 499 <a) aT 


{ 
/-°3ep410 sedoid ut yno ezep E{T4M x/ { (TTI) USNTICITAMN = OFTAMO 
/-*pue JeJjnq SYR AySeeT 3e 02 dn ‘xepuyA CACge eVep 
Aue ejTAMJEAO 02 QAhoge ee OM ;/ ‘XOpUuIA = SUT TJSQEMA 
a 
/~*POMOTTEMS USeq Sey eRep SREoTpUL »/ ‘0 = seqAqu 
‘XpuIA = SUT T1072 eM 
(ouTT293eEMA < XOPUIM) ZF 
‘seqAgu =+ xepura 
{(seqkqu ‘xepuya+tezznga ’ 103 ZnN«) WeUACU 
/-° Jez3NgM 03 pueddy ,/ 
} (seqkgu + xepuya =< seqAgna) JT 
} (TIAN =i 2033NGA FY ETTIMA = STTZ) JT 


[0 = S3F4M6 ONOT 
} fseqXqu ONOT ‘{2033Ndy ALAA ‘STTZ Ulda  (seyAqu ’szezznq ‘STT)EIT4MD ONOT 
| grrr nnn rrr rrr rr renner nnn nencrcrccewrwrn SATIMD monn o---o- v/ 


{ ‘seqAqu = seqigna 9 ‘sezjnq = wejjnga ‘OTT = Hs 
SSTo@ 
{ ‘0 = seqAgna {VION = JeJ3nGA 6S TINN = STTAA 
} (e=>seqkqu || (TInN==2e73nq -Y9 OSTTAM—OCTTZ) || TINN=STTZ ) 3T 
/'e6esn Gutystxe Aue ystuty s/_  * (@TTSM) USNTJOIT AMD = ©QTAMH ONOT 
} ‘seqkqu QNOT ‘4eszndy ALAA ‘@LTZ Uldd 
(seqAgu ‘2ezznq ‘ST Tz) SreTSOEQSITM) ONOT 
| alata SIE [OOGSIT AMD ---------- e/ 


:( eq7amS )umyer 
/»° sueddeq sty} Ons exe ‘eYA 1073EUl ON x/ $0 = XOPUIA = SUTTJSQeEMA 
‘(QUT TAO7EMA /AOZJNGA ‘OTT IA) OAT4AM = OQTIMH 
(0 < xepuIM FF TION =) 2833NGA FF TINN =i STTIA) ZT 
20 = ©2749 ONOI 


z eheg o°0T6 O86T EZ:oT Ee Ady 


84 


2 (AP* APEPP<-3xeQUCD) GIANd 
‘( sTeset<- (cureszqqueyt[o<-3xe U00(, suretgz)) ) sTeAseTQNg 
} {axequos, yxequogdnosy == (3x8QU0d) upAANg 
/= °galId BT ISIT'’*, 2° ybT GHNa’’*, SITT Supqjewos jng ,/ 


i(u ’, PX 4) sqUTAad 
} ‘uquyp = (u) Nang 


{ 
£( (3Lx0 ¥ Pt) (xeqo 
“(3zx0 3 = (@<<pt)) (4ego 
’ a= 9 (I9T<<PT 
*(34x0 9 (THZ<<pt)) (azeqo 
* pOKOXOHOK,,) FAUT Ad 
+ ‘PF aI (pt)arang 


oe 
! (0) 3x0 
$(,u\,emeuettz sxoeqoszt, :e6esp,,) zqutad 
} (t+T =i cbse) ZF 
} ‘aBaey, seqo ‘obse quy = (Aue ‘obse) upem 


{ 
‘ ([d3zt-]sebessoygaar ’,U\s%,,) 32urad 
‘ (TT) SSOTD 


‘ (gurerz9(, SuerZWUETIO) ‘SITZ) azIpecy = AJIT 
este 

SATIZ ON = GZT 
(o == ©TT3) 3T 
(eureu ’,u\----- ,S%, SIZ Suppeq -----, )z3utad 


¢ 3e0909 = 3e039e6-eurerqQUeyT [O° oues3 
{doigqe) = doig3eb: eure17QUuey [O° cures 
{WL109Ae}) = W1073eH° eure1 QUST TO’ eurerz 
{3STTIOD = ASTIAOH: eureaquey [O° cuesz 

70 = ST@AST ‘eurerz 


-eure tz ouely 
‘(@IIaTIO SGON ‘eureu)uedo = STT3 Uldd 
‘d33¥ daal 

} ‘eureu, sey (cureu)peuDIaI PTOA 


neces 789995 ddaI use qxe 
$(, xequogdno.s) dorgjeD dadaI uteqxe 


¢ 
° 


zg eeg O° ppeuwmsst 9B6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


$(— 4xequogdne.n) 3sTIWCD dddAI Us0epe 


} = (t+aowsd Isv1(3ut) -] sebessowdiai,y seq 
/e\8aCeO IHOTY NI gSAHL 129 ISOW +/ 


‘{ ,‘STTZ azar pet6uew e (garava) -----, } = []peaisq aeqo 
{ yeeebessou stq3 366 nof ptp soW ()INNHD LYOHS) -----u } = [Jqu0ysisy szeqo 
{ ,2eabessou sty 366 nod ptp soy (WuOr awa) ----- } = [Jwr03z6sy szeyo 
{,,°Snq sexpeuD gal (YOWMA INAITO) -----u }= []aosrgqueTToosq zeqD 
{ ,‘punoj eTTz yons ou (FIT ON) ----- u + = Dertgzonisp szeqo 
‘{ ,°©LTJ gaaAI ue Aou (ga ION) -----w } = [J] onNfsq azeqo 
{ ,°A0.te ue xoeq eveh sod eUuL (NONNT SOd) -----w } = [Jsoq6sw seqo 
{ ,eee6essou sty 365 noX ptp aoq (ANOd aaI) -----u } = [Jeucgisy aeqo 
{ ,2eebesseu styq 306 nod pip MoH (IWWCNA) ----~u } = Dtenpugisy seyo 
‘{ ,°@LTZ aa poob w (Aw aa) ----- u } = DAexpdsy aeqo 
‘eueraqz { 
/-"UTaATA peqyseu ATQue1mMoS sdnow6H # »/ {STOART QUT 
: CUCATQUST TO suesqQue;r[yd 
} Jonas zepedhy 


/+ ° io seoeds , 

BuyTre.q) sasqzoereyo etqequtTad y JO epew exe SI TTe FeqR xoOouD ‘sedAQ , 

Wi0j SB pesn 4, UeIe SGI peAtesoi Jeg Oe) “pesn 4,Uese ,61WOw’ “ullWOu ¢ 

pue ’.6SITy’uTSIIy ‘w68Odu’ “yTHOd, SAI PeAteset OTR FEU} ACU) “OTTZ » 
©q UT peseqUMOoUe SGI SY} UO UCP eq PTNoS HuppeyS eaTsuejxe e10H [Cal] +/ 
| gr nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn yooqddI ---------- +/ 


wt’ JIT/FIF, OPNTOUTH 
[| grmnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nner ee nn nnnerecsarses v/ 


/+ / 
7 ‘zeqndu0o ehTuly-S10poumoD SG 10} UOTSIGA STUL 4 
¥ ¥ 
/s ‘uTewop OFTqnd ey UT ST @71eMQjOS STUL ;/ 
i ‘SZ.Uy OTUOIQOSTA ‘MEUS SAGIS PUB UOST.LIOW Asuzee Ag +4 
3% ¥ 
/s “OTGMEXS TeROTOYS SB 10J D°WATIACUS SES ,/ 
hs IUCN 2ST NY 80d WYEOOUd WLATDIS ¥ SV SIHL ASA JON Od +/ 
¥ ¥ 
/s ‘sio1te Temjon.4s 103 Huppexy ,/ 
it 98/€z/T ‘OLT3 SQ-ddI ue JO Emon Ss EM WO QUTAg O° pPew~sAl 4 
SSeS SSS S866 6 eee See Se ee nn ee ee ¥ 


T ebeg o-oewJJT 9E6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B- 85 


{ 
‘ (dg37) umes 
~--STOART <- (eure. 1qQUET [O<- que.red(, eure.13) ) 


! (quered) yeprpeey = dzzT 
‘ (que.red) apHand 
!++STeAeT<- (ewe sgquet{o<-queued(, eure.) ) 


‘334 daal 
} ‘quesed, qxequogdnoszy §(juesed) 325369 dial 
/e°3%F OC{QUT GATP UOUL » 
-yaredAIqns ©ZTS IW, Wd “NG Ty & STpuey / 
| prornnn nnn nn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nner rnnee QEDIED ---------- +/ 


{ 
(33% : XWHOaal ¢ WGN = dz37) umje1 
¢ (maurg) dn029Y2S0TD 


{.-STOABT<- (SuTe1IQUOTTO<-3XOqUODASFT (¢ ouret3) ) 


 (AwiO-aal =< d33t) oTtus { 
‘ (mau) zeoTay = GJZT 
(0< ( (sous) apEPENTDGIED = d33t) )- 31} op 


$44STOABT<- (Gute IWUST[O<-IXSQUODASTT (y eures3) ) 
/= “AMPS JOJ sOpeot GOUd v/ 


‘ () aaaPppewD 
{(mauy °3x0QU0D3STT) dnosgquedo = d33T 


£ (4xeQU0D9STT) APHIANd 


‘mBu 4xXe\QUODdNO+s) 

!G33T daar /xt03STHex Sngrertduop;/ 
} f4xXeQUODySTTIy yxequogdnorg (3xeQUODASTT)doz1MNeD daaI 

/e°2F OQUT GATP UST] » 
*,aTedAyqns ezts dOWd, Witd ‘“AUNG dad & STPueH oy, 
| pornnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn nn nnn nnn nner nennrrern= Golgqeg ---------- +/ 

{ 

‘(3st : NO aal ¢ MWCO = dz3}) wimnqes 

(nowy) dno2ygeSOTD 


‘(xwio"aal =< Gyzt) ettam { 


y ebeg o-eMIZT EET LZ:0T € Ady 


5 (mou) zeoTAyY = GJZT 
(o< ( (nowy) spEPEMEDTTAED = c337) ) 3T} Op 
/= ‘2ApPUNID TIED Aq petpuey Apeorre IVD ‘dOWd ‘WHOA ‘ISIT +/ 
/~ ‘ARINeqD AOJ stEpeet WHOA »/ 


‘eure.17Mouy (» SUCITWUSTID) = Sues FUST TS O° Mou 


‘ () aaaprpeq 

{(neug ‘querted) dnosgguedo = d33T 

‘ (quezed) spHand 

-+4+STOAQT ‘cule. JMou 

/,ometz 8, Quered Adoo ,/ ‘emer; UeTIO o<-queted(, euretq), = cure.qznou 


!dj3¥ daar /+ wae: GreieTTceoss / 
} ‘quesed, qrequopdnosg = (Juezed)ui0;}eD dail 
/e°3¥ OJUT CATP UEUL , 
*,aredALqns ezTs WuOd, WT4d “UNG WOT © STpueY / 
| prnno nn nnn ne nn nner nn nnn nen n nar reresnrerecccneocncs WIS HQ ---------- s/ 


$( (curesrgnous(, curerqquet{o) ‘quesed) AsTTIpeey cae 


$ (que.red) appang 


+STOART * cure 1 qMeu 
/,oueszz 8, Queted Adoo ;/ baaecauimetsnesuaned sees a) = oureiqMou 


Jeuret Aheu ouetly 
} ‘querzed, qxequopdnosg §=(Ruezed)3sTMeD ddI 
/-°3¥ OAUT GATP UeUT, s 
*,aredArqns ezts ISIT, WT4d ‘“AUNG ISIT & eTpuey v/ 
Nernon no nn reco rete nenenen anne nese necerenneennonocon= ATWO ---------- +/ 


{ 
‘ (xXWIO aa) unger 
Je * (OZTSPP<-IPPP<-3XEWUOD * 105 5N" ° ‘3103u09) seqhgpeeyaal ¢/ 
/»° (aod) S6uta3es Aj18do.d peseys "dso ‘eqEp TEDOT 4A0J y 
youretz,, O43 .Sutsn ‘squeEqUOS S,xUNYO Eq peel PT nom tepeet TeotdAy wv 9, 
¢ (3x0 U0) ApHANg 


} %Qx@qQuOD, 3xeQUODdN02 (328U09) zeony daa 

/-e° y@ZTS GIy Td 
‘@AMYD J0NJO UTEWOS TON SSop YOTUA yung we ‘ST FUT,“ AUNED FeOT IW / 
[enorme nn nnn neta e rent n nnn rene nsenesooeesenowoonnnsoce JECT cneenen-- e/ 


w\,) sa 


£ (edkaqns<-3xeqU09) GI3Ng 
(INES -TINN =1 edéQqns<-3%x0qU00) ZT 
$ (OZTS>—P* ApEPPP<-3x8QUD) NIN 


€ ebeg O-eUOJZJF O9E6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


86 


{ 
$(jz7) ume. 


{ 
‘soqhq =+ UuoT]ATSOd<-3XxXBAU0D 


es 
/-°@3{@TdmOSD YUNG S1oyeq seqiq Jo Ano uey ,/ ‘aaY awa = G3t 
((INGWaND LASaaIO ‘’SeqAq ‘eTTJ<-3xeQUOD) #eS5 = T-) JF 
} (0 < seqkq) ZT 


SXWNO aa = G3SF daar 
} %seqkq ONOT *3xEQU0D, QxeQUODdN0*) =. (SogAq ‘3xe QUOD) pagdpIS daar 
| /-otzToeds soqe6juy st uot Ae\ueweTauT stu »/ 
/=° TeZOSseylg<-3xXe}UOD JOU 4Nq UOT TSOd<-3xeQUOCD sejepdy ,/ 
/+°Spzempeq 06 2,U0q *3xeQUCD © UT s8zAq 4eA0 Apis y/ 
| prmnn nn sen n nnn nme rene nnn nn nn ene renner necssrennn= pagdyys ---------- +/ 


1) 


‘uoT3aTsod = uoTyTsod<-juerzed<-3xe {UO0D 
‘uoT3Tsod<-quezed<-9xe4U0D - UoTITSOd =+ segosse7Aq<-Jquested<-3xe UCD 
/uoT3TSOd<-3xeQUOS = UOTA;FSod 
} este 
/°SlTZ STOUM 10z QxEQUCD y/ { 
} (TINN == Quered<-3xeQU00) JT 


suotatsod SNOT 4te3sTHe1 
} ‘qxequO0D, yxequopdne.+ «= (3x109U09) dnounyesoTD daa 
[pnqno rocco ns cnnoncewn nnn nsannnonnnnsnsosocoscnce ANOAQYESOTD ---------- +/ 


‘ (dgzT) umqes 
‘aaT ava = Sit 
( (pumoq<-meu)Gao"sI || punogq<-quersed < punog<-mou ) JT 


70 = wegogse7Aq<-meu = OZTS O° ApEp{O<-Mou 

‘YNNHD TINN = j§ edAqqns<-meu = QP{0°4pEpio<-Meu 

‘ (quested) sezAgesoypyunyD + uot yTSod<-juerzed = punoq<-seu 
‘uof3fsod<-quetzed = UOTIFSOd<-mMeu 

‘el Tz <-queszed = ©lTj<-Mou 

s‘eurelqQueT[o<-qQuesed = eulelqWUeT[O<-MoU 

‘quered = que.red<-mou 


‘KWNO AaI = G33 daa 
{qmou = MOU, BxeQUODdNO.+.) 103STHe1 
{qqueszed = Querzed, qxequopdnosy 468js}be1 
} ‘omeu, ‘oquered, qxequopdnosz)  (gmeu ‘ojuersed) dnosgyuedg diaI 
| prmnn nn nn nnn nnn nnn rrr nnn nnn nnn Gnosgyuedg ---------- +/ 


$ (d3z7) ume 
/= *WRAS ETTZ 03:05 x/ * (ONINNISAD LaSaaO ’0 ‘OTTZ)210°S9 


esT[o 
/= ‘STZ da we AO [Tews oo] ,/ ‘3AT7ION = G33T 


( (sepeegppuny) JoezTs > punog<-meu ) JF ESTO 


vy eg o°-4s3t O86T ZZ:0T e€ Ady 


‘punog<-seu = GjjT 
(0 > punoq<-meu) JT 
! (eTTz) @BueyelIT” = punog<-seu 
/- ‘6buyuuyieq s,eTtz eq 03 05 pue punog<-meu 36S ;/ 


$0 = asegogse7Aq<-meu = 8ZTS 0° ApEpiO<-nou 
‘YNQED TION = = edAqqns<-meu = QPf° 4pipto<-aou 
70 = UOT TSOd<-Meu 


/~s (20210 we3shks S[Td +/ 


‘OTT; = Slt} <-Aeu 
J‘EMeAIQUST IO = GUeAQQUOT[O<-MoUu 
/y°quesed ou sey ,STTZ STOUA,, s/ ‘TIAN = quewed<-meu 


‘XwHO dal = GJZF daa 
{QmMeU = MOU, QxeQUODdNO.z) w8AsTHe1 
{0@LT = SLTI Uldd se ;sTbes 
} femesqQUST TO, SMTEATQUETID ‘QMEU, AxEQUOOdNOAD «= NETTS Add 
(ourezqQUeTIO ‘OMEU ‘OSTTI) aaTMUedO daaI 


[ponnnnnnnnnn nnn nnn wenn nnn nnn nnnennnenennn nnn necere= TaTHURGQ ---------- v/ 
| grammer ttn teen nen ww OOOO OR Peed 22s 222=== +/ 
{ 
‘ (qq6ueyeTTz) umjes 
{ 


/-’pansqe Buteq sod +/ ‘gomm sod = wydueyeTtz 
(0 > qqbueyerttz) JT 
/~e *“OTTZ UT SOVAGH ST WOTUM ‘SES OUI THIA UCTITSod sumjey »/ 
‘(INGMIND LASAIO ‘0 ‘STTZ)2189SD = YAbueTSTTS 
/s°OTTZ JO pus 07 eos »/ ‘(GND LaSago ‘0 ‘@TTz)2~2°eS9 
} (0 < ETTZ) 3T 
‘FITZ ON = WQHueyJEItzZ ONO 
} ‘tts utad (eTts)uQ6ueTetta ONOT 
/s ‘pug uz<- (tts) uadva(s GETPUeHETTZ) = WueTerTs * 
:sTuQ op asnf p,ea ‘pug yg peuyequTeu sog ebTuly JT MON + 
"yQHuel SIT putz OF x 
uoTaTsod s,eTTz eq3 ebueqo 02 eney om ‘sogebTuy OF SyueUL :1Odaad ACIS + 
‘uoTqequeweTamy oTzToeds-sogeStuy * (YONNT SOd 40 ATIFON) + 
@epoed A0LIe qjJI SATZeHou eS ESTOS JO STTZ SqQ zo yQ6ueT ey susunjey ;/ 
[pronnno nnn nner nn nen rene rr nnnnne= ()yqGueyetta Susynoiqns eAeATAg ----- / 


uw’ 3FT/FIT, OPNTOUTH 

ud’ OF5/33F 4 SPNTOUTH 
0 03 BETZ FALIOW OID U3 36S 10 ’o°oT6 WATA AVTT wemITA =*,0T6, sesn » 
% 
‘yeqnduoS ebhTuly-C10poumoD OY AOJ UOCTSIBA STUL » 


¥ 
‘ufewop OTTGnd ey} UT STF S1eMRzOS STUL » 
"sQuy OTUOAQOeT_ ‘MeYS eASzS pue uosTu0W Auer Ag 


¥ 
(‘eTTa eui0g eHueyo1e{UL ST Jar) » 


98/€z/T ‘SOTTZ S$G-gaaI Suypeesr s0J seuTyno1s quoddng 3° yzaI ey 
eee eee ¥ 


T eg O°4JJF OBET ZZ:0T © Ady 


B - 87 


} ((3xeQuU00%) apePEMYDASED = dJ3T) WRTAS 
(xwiO- aI = G33T) 3T 


*GMreLTIUSTTO = Sues JQUeT TIO’ 3xoQU0D 
‘(qxequooy ‘OTTZ) aarauedo = dJzT 


Syxequos yxequopdno2+ 

‘d33T daar /209stbex Bngsertdn0d,/ 
} feurerqQUeTToOy SUELQUETID ‘OTT Alda (ewerzgqQUETIO ‘OTTZ) JaIPeCU dal 
| prnnn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn renner rrr rene aaIpeey ---------- s/ 


Ce ea op 03 Burmon yf s { 
$4x@QU00, AxKeQuO|dNo.+ (xeQU0D) dno2wjdTyASs daa 
[pronnne nn nnn nnn nono nnn nnn nnn nen nner nnn n neon nnene- dnozwdypyig ---------- v/ 


} ( (essions: ‘3e3zNq ‘OTTI< <-4x8qU00) seen } YOR TAS 
(0 < seqdgu) 37 SSTO 

INNES PSOE = q33F 
((axequoo) seqAgescppjuntD < sezAgu) 37 este 

‘youu INAITIO = G3F 
(9 > seqdgu) 31 


‘KWHO daI = G33t daaI sz0e3sT6e1 
} {seqhqu SNOT ‘2es5NG, ALAA «= *9XSQUOD, QxeQUODdNOID 
(seqAqu ’sezznq ’3xeQUOD) seqAgpeeyaaI dial 
| prnnn nn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn en nena nner ann seqkgpeeygaI ---------- +/ 


‘djZt = ssecaee taves 
(xwIO dal =i G33T) ZF 


y eeg O°433T O86T PZ:0T Ee Ady 


I! 0 > @ZzTS’ apIpto<-3xeQUCD) JT ESTOS 
/= é3x@ QUOD UT 3JeET Se7Mq # UUW sebseT 40 eATEHOU EZTSIO :2xeUD s/ 


Js ‘sar TeSeLTT 28030 fog sper pine. ON 7 
40g posh pue TeboTTT ese senTeA GI eaTztsod-uo 


: (2zepeezpjunyy) JoezTs Suyuypewer 
‘ (zepeozppunyD) JoezTs =+ UOTAZTSOd<-3xe {UCD 
/s -9x89U uo euz ezepdn »/ 


{ 
‘(aa ION = APP ApHPIP<-3xeQUOd) UNE :4rTnejep 
‘yeeiq :IWD eSeO <ISIT eseo ‘:pRibd eseo 
} (aD: 2PEPIO<-3xO{U0S) YORTAS 
(TIAN == Quezed<-3xeQU0D) JT 
/= °“IND 40 W8Od 40 ISTI ©q YSTM xUMP TEAST doy, :2700ND ,»/ 


{ 
!(gaT avd = APP‘ APIPIO<-3xeQUO0D) UNQ_eA «39 ~ESEO 
 (gouaasod = CAPO ° APEPIO<-3xOQU0D) UMASA 2 T- Tt 


((2epeegppmyD) soezTS ‘ApEPIO<-9xEqU0OH(» FLAG) ‘OTTF<-3xeqUOD) prey) 
) Pe 
/~ ° (AtTeutz) szepeeq 2umyo eq] peoy »/ 
{ 


‘Huyupewet = OZTS#O° IpHyo<-3xXeqUOD 
} (6uyupemes < (zepeczpunaD) 30ezTs ) 3¥ este 
/-* sepeeyprmy & 403 3xequoo ua ut seqiq Gon ous 30U JT Jar avd +/ 


/=°QWa 2F Azeu ‘AexO 8,37 Mow! OM THIN »/ !aaI-ONd = OPP" apIpe<-3x@qU0D 
/+ ‘Jepeey meu egy peat 02 dn Jeg »/ 


: () daaPpeqy 

£ ((oztsrD’ spEpID<-3xeqU0D) GO SI + (3xeqU u00) Se7AGeLOPPIUMIZ 
*4x0QU00) pags = djZF 
/» ‘6buypped » xu snozaead jo O sepufewss drs / 


£03xEQU0D = 3XEQU0D, sean eee 4e3S}6e1 


} £93x89U00¢ yxequojdnosg —_ (098 4U0D) ApEPEMIDNAED AI 


| prmmn nnn nnn nn nn nn nn nnn nn nnn nn nnn nnn nner nnnnnnn- APIPUUNIDIION ---------- 


¢ eeg O°4JJT O86T ZZ:0T € Ady 


v/ 


88 


{ 
‘ (py) ume. 


{ 
{ ‘ee1q 
SaaT Ava = CTO’ APEPIO<-3x6QU0D = PT 
} <IWD ese :qOYd CSeO :WNOT OSEO <:ISIT eseo 
} (pt) 4o3TAs 
¢ (axequ09) apppMYjAe| = PT 


‘PT GI 2z03sThe. 


} fqxequod, Axequogdnoz §«8=—_- (3x@ UD) spePMDIAED AI 


| prnnnn nn nn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nn nen nn nnn nennenenern= APIPUMNGDRS) ---------- 


(Pt = GPP’ spEPP<- eed 
/» SUNY JGR STPUEY FOTTES CGF IST :3TNETET +/ 
a: pee 3eD}06<-eurerq{UETTIOy) = PT } : Ivo eseo 
¢ (3x@qU0D) (3sT'7306<-eurerzQUETIOy) = PT } :ISIT eseo 
‘ (axeQuU05) (uLI0 ara -GUeITIUBTIO,y) = PF } :WNOd eseo 
‘yeoiq ‘aa dvd = Pt } :dOdd eseo 
‘y ( (3x@qUO0S) zpEPIUNTDICD = PT) WITAS 


@UEATIUST [O<-IXQUCD = GUEAFIUOT [Oy GUCAFUSTIO JejsTbe1 
‘PF aI z0e3sTbe1 


‘gay avd = PT = GPP -prprx<- -3x83U00 
(aOUd == PT) JT 
£ (3x0QU09) upipuNTDAS| = PT 


‘PT GI 20 4sTbe. 


+/ 


} %qx@quod, qxequopjdnos»y «=: (3xeQuOd) apePUNTDIAIED AI 


| pronnon en nn nomen none ener nner anne nn nncnrecneree APNG IAN ---------- 


?( (TInN ‘3ue.zed) ast TIPeoy yumges 


v/ 


} ‘quered, qxequogdne. (uerzed) 3eDIpeey dial 


9 eeg O°433F 986T ZZ:0T € Ady 


/=°IND/ISII @ UT PeEMOTTe ere evcge sedAQ »unyo ATUO s/ 


peda { (gx0QU0D3STT9) (uL1097e6<-SuIeAJQUST [Os 


[grnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn nnnnns FEQTPECY ---------- 


‘(4337 : XWNO aaI 2 WaWW Na = djjzT)umqex 
*aaT Gvd = G3t 
(0 < d3zt) ZT 


‘ (axeQU0D3ST Ty) dnosnYyesoTD 


‘(WO aaI = d33t) ettusa { 
/-° Tod STR 169Je POMOCTTE SdOUd ON x/ ‘aSTwa = »odo.1d 
(aOUd =) GPP’ zp HI’ POqUODASTT) 3T 
‘SATION ‘dal vd ‘ANOC”aaI ‘aWWCGNA Sepntour :3TNezep x/ 
a ey 9e9906<-curerzqQueT{oy) = G3Jt } > IyO eseo 
4x0]U0D3STTS) (QSTI9eH<-eurerqQUCTIOy) = GJZF } sISITI eseo 
= djzt } a 
/qeeiq 
‘gaY ava = zt 
esSTO 
£ (3x0QU0D3STT9) (do1gqe6<-cureragqqUeT IOs) = dz 
(49dod) 37 
} :dOUd eseo 
} ((axequ0D3sT Ts) spEPIUNIDIED = dz3ZT) ae 
op 


GUELIWUST [O° 3XOQUODIST T 
esto 
‘aSTwa = »xodoid 
(IVD == GPP' 4apEppP<-quesed) ZF 
/s°SISIT S€ TTOM SB SID STpueYy SN SET 3Se3 eSeD TeTOedS CUO ,/ 


‘ () aaaPpeuD 
$ (axequ0g3sTTy ‘quesed) dnosgyuedg = djzT 


S‘euretqqUueyt[O = 


} ‘eurerqQUeT TO, GUTeAQUETID ‘Querzed, Qxrequopdno.+1 


/=° TETAT-Q ST STUQ ‘U,QUSwWSTdUT JsTT]Ipeey Eq WTA Quowebuee TeToeds Ag ,/ 


+/ 


(euerzqQUeTIO ‘Queted) qsTTIpeey diJI 


[ poem n nn etn nnn rrr ren n nn en nnn nrronncronccee ISTTIPCCY ---------- 
{ 
: (331) umes 
/»°STa3 3WHneo EA, PTNoYS apEPUNTIASD »/ ‘3a ION = G33 
/e'QI Ue WMZe1 3,UOp eA GMs SEW ¢/ (0 < 433t) 31 
‘ (3x U009) dno.2YyWSOTD 
{ 


‘°° 33 ION ‘dal Gd ‘SNOaal Sepntour :3tnezep y/ 
tame i 329906<-curergQUSTIO,) = d3Zt } : Iwo eseo 
‘ (yx0QU00%) (3sT71306<-emerqWUETIOy) = GJZF } :ISIT eseo 
‘ (qx@qQUOO%) (uL1073e5<-euresz QUOT IOy) = GJJt } WHOA ESeO 


v/ 


g eeg O°sj3t 986T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B- 89 


!‘XWIO aaI = GFF daaI Azeqstbex 
} fegep, ALAA {OZTSHIO ONOT “APP AI ‘3xeqUOD, QxeQquoDdnoiD 
(eyep ‘ezTSHO ‘GPO ’3xeQU0D) 2D {Ng daaI 
| prronemeo nnn ne er esese eee rocecnnowesowowenannnnsewnonn WAN ereen----- +/ 


‘ (d3z7) umyeu 
$( (quexsed) puppang ) dz 131 
‘(pTo) dnosgMeso[TD = dz3zFT 


‘dj3¥ ddaI 20 3stTHes 
Squered<-plo = queued, yxequopdno.y 4seqsTbe1 
} {PTO, Axequogdnosy §=(pto) dnosgmpug gaa 
[grower ener neon nooo on cooowocres S22 ee @GoeeasO@oeonooaenoaeaa eq dno29Mpug @eeeeaeeeweee@e x/ 


{ 

ea 

fu0TATSsOd<-p[oO = uoTATsod<-Queized<-pto 
‘uoTaTsod<-jueted<-pto - uoTyTsod<-plo =+ segogseqAq<-queted<-pTo 

/= 3xe QUOD QUered eAepdn ,/ jon 
‘youu sod = G33t (0 > (©TT3<-PTO) USNTIeEIAT-MH) JF 

/= %XO{UOS ETT TeAseT doj ,/ } ( TINN = juesed<-pto ) 3T este 
SYOMMA INAIIO = GIZT 

/~ MUNYD ASeT EGY SOTO 3,UPTP */ ( XNNHO TION =i CIPO’ APIPIP<-PTO ) 3T 


‘XWIO dal = GJZt daar 
SOPTO = PTO, AxeQuCOdNO‘D 408 4SsTbes 
} {OPTOs Axoquogdnozn (OPTO)dnosgmesotD daal 
[powocn owen ene ener n nnn eno c mene nner sennecen= GNOLQMeSO[D ---------- v/ 


! (gz) umqer 
‘MOMMA INAITIO = dst 
( ((punoq<-meu) ado-SI 77 (punogq<-meu) uMoUy) 
|| (uozytsod<-meu) ado SI 
/equnyp & Suyytaan ATQuesmo 30u y/ || INAH TION = CPiO* apHpip<-quesed ) ZF 


‘{ 
*puysyO = punog<-seu 
( puso < pumog<-seu || uMoUNQeEZRI0NZS = punNog<-Meu ) 3T 
‘ (queszed) seqigesoypmy + UuoTATSod<-moeu = puso 
} ( (©ztStO: apEPto<-Quesed) uMoUy ) ZT 


£0 = aegogsezAq<-meu = OZTSIO° APEPIO<-MoU 
INNHO 'TINN = (I19° APEDIO<-Mou 
‘punog<-queted = punoq<-Meu 
suoTaTsod<-quesed = UOT TSod<-Mou 
/@TTs<-queszed = SLT} <-Mou 
feure1qQuey [O<-Queted = GWeiqQUeT[O<-MoUu 
/quesed = queszed<-Mau 


SXWNO aaI = GFF daAaI z0eqstbe. 
‘PUPP ONOT 40eqsTbes 


z ebeg O°-mJZ¥ 986T 2Z70T € Ady 


MOU, YXOEQUODdNOID 46eASTHe1 
‘ojueted = queszed, yxequopdnoug 4eqsThe1 

} ‘omeu, ‘oQuUeted, QxeQUCDdn0Ag §=(QMeU ‘ojUeted) dnosguuedg qizaI 

[ pom mec r een n nnn rr nner nner nner a reccran Gnosguuedg ---------- x/ 


2QMeu = 


 (dgj37) umes 

£( (meu ’Quested) dnosguuedg )djzIFI 

£( ((qr)zoezts ‘’edAyqns9(, aixg) ‘quesed) seqAgeaztamaal )dFZIFI 
!(eztgdnos6 ‘edAydnos6 ‘quesed) apeppand = dst 


| ‘d33¥ daar sze4stTbe1 
} ‘feztsdnos6 QNoT ‘edAqqns ‘edkydno.s6 qI ‘mou, “queued, qxe Quopdno1+ 
(mou ‘edéaqns ‘eztsdnosb ‘edAydnos6 ‘queted) dno2.9MeIS didI 
| pronnn nena nnn enn nn nnn nn nen nnn rn rere rn GNOIQMIAEAS ---------- +/ 


‘ (djz7) umqo1 
‘yO INIITIO = GZF 

( (aTmTI)GGO SI 99 (3TWTT)UMOUY ) JF ESTO 
youd sod = Gzt 

((ONINNIOSY LASIIO 0 ‘STTF)2#8eS < 0) JT 


!9 = aegogsezAq<-meu = OZTSHO° ApEpPIO<-MOU 
/~ WUNGS QUeLMOS CU SOZeOTPUT s/ *NNHD TIAN = 11° 4PEPIO<-Mou 


/-°OTTF SGA JO VERS 02 OF ,/ 


{TTT = punoq<-Mou 

70 = UOTITSOd<-MeUu 
‘OTTS = OTT} <-AMou 
‘TINN = GWeAQUCT[O<-MoU 
TIAN = quesred<-Mou 


‘RWIO adaI = GIST daaI seqstbos 
{QMOU = MOU, QxXEQUODdNOID 4eqsTbe1 
} {ATWTT SNOT /oMeU, QxeQUODdNOID ‘eTTS Uldd (3TWTT ‘omeu ‘eTTZ) aaIMUedO dJaI 


{1 (adxe) = d3z= (xwHO gal = G33T) FT} (ado) dzZIZI OuTJEpH 
/-° °° J@TGITS Epod SO.Mo0S SYA Seu! OF COE pA~fem ASYZOUe OR x/ 


( umouyjexj0Nzs =| (zs) ) (ezTS) uMoU eUTJEPH 
/- UMOUYAORIONZS JOU °O*T ‘SITUTJEP ST EZTS AUNYS & JTF 3S} 07 C1OeU VY +/ 


[| poower nn nen enn nnn enn nnn nnn en nner nner rreserorrer= JOUTIM FAI ---------- +/ 


wt OT6/Z3T,, SPNTUT#H 
ut’ JIT/FIFy OPNTOUTH 


[eroeerneonee- OO OO eee ¥ 
*Jegnduco ebjTuly-e10poumMI0D SYR AOJ UOTFSAEA STU] » 


¥ 
‘uFewop OF Tqnd eyy UF SF G1eMRzOS STU x 
*Squy OFUOAQOSTY ‘MUS SADIS pue UOSTALOW Asser Ag 


¥ 
(-eTTa yeui0g eSueyosz0jUL ST Ja) + 


98/ez/T “SCLTJ SQ-aaI Hupayaa a0j seuTynoa qQuoddng O°MIJI ‘ 
Oa aaa aaa a aa + 


T e6eg O°MJJT OBET ZZ70T € Ady 


B - 90 


{ 

! (XWHO” aa) uanqe.s 

$0 = aegogsezAq<-3xXeqUOS = OZTSfO* APHPIO<-3Xe UCD 
SINNHD TINN = CPt?’ ApEPIO<-3xe UCD 


‘{ 
‘T =+ uoTaTsod<-3xe {Uo0o 
? (gowaa SOd) unqe1 
( (t ‘02029(, ALAA) “@TTS<-3xEQU0D) EIT4MD < 0) JT 
} ( (4egogsezAq<-3xeQuU0S)GGO SI ) ZF 
/~ °eyq ped @ 10J WOO. CO x 
{Sm Ete} UCTATSOd ppo ue UO E1,EM JT °4XOQUOS OYA USQITAMIOAO 
3, UeAey OM GOUTS pUe ‘USAS O SMM PUS YXEQUCS EY GOUTS » 
-Axepunoq uese ue 02 dn sn Butiq 03 pepeou JF e7Aq ped & {TM s/ 


i{ 
$ (SOMMTTINATTO) wnqes 
( segogsezAq<-3xe{U0D ={ SZTS IO’ APEPIO<-3x@qUOD ) ZT 
/~ peuuetd se soqXq Auew se ©3014 QUeTIO ey OEMs eryeEU y/ yon 
‘ (down Sod) umqe1 
( (qNamNo LasagaO ‘regogsezAq<-3xeqUOD ‘ST TJ<-3KEWU0D) HEeSD 
<0 
1! ((oNnoT) z00ezTs ‘zegogseqAq<-3x0qU0D7(, FLAG) ‘OTTF<-3xeQUOD) EIT MD 
| <0 
11 (IN@RIND Lasaao ’ ((ONOT)JOeZTS + szegogseqAq<-3x8 QUOD) - Bei i i a 
<0) ZT 
/= aeqogse7zAq 03 ezTS »xUNYD eyQ 36S pue xOeG Ob »/ 
} ( umowMeEXIONZS == OZTSD’ APEPIO<-3xEQUOD ) JT 


‘ (Goma INAI'T) unqer 
/» yung © ut Aou »/ ( SINNED TINN == GPI* ApHPil<-3xeqUOD ) ZT 
/» eoammos Burpped y/ $0 = 040Z CX0M 
£QRXOQUOS = XOAUOD, QxEQuODdN0.2D s6eAsTHe 
} £03x@qQUOD, QxeQquogdnosg §=(03xeQU0D) pUPHINd dial 
Pomme nnn nnn nnn nn nn nnn nnn nnn nner ne nnn nnn nn nnnnnn= pupinqnd ---------- +/ 


‘ (XWIO~aaI) unqer 
‘seqhgu =+ uot ATsod<- xe QUOD 


‘ (gowaa sod) unqes 
((seqkqu ‘eep ‘OTTJ<-3xXEWUOD)OITMD < 0) JT 


: (gqowua INATTO) wnqer 
( (@ZTS>1>° ApEPPO<-JxKEQUOD < seqhgu + segosse7zAq<- xe QUOD 
/~= 4UNYS MOTZAEAO ,/ 9 (@ZTSHO* APEPIO<-3XO QUOD) UMOU)) 
[1 (pumoq<-gxequos < seqhgu + UofT zTSod<-QxeqUOS 
/ = 3X8YUOO MOTJIBAO y/ 9 © (puNog<-3xeUOD) UMOUD)) 


y ebeg O°MJZF OB6T ZZ:0T © Ady 


/»+ seqykqu eat yebeu ,/ 1! 0 > seqkgu 
/~ munyo © uF Q0u y/ |! SINNED TINN = CPP° ApHPIPo<-QxeQuoo ) JF 


£03X@QUOD = 3XBQUOS, AxeQuUODdN0’ 4S Aste. 
} ‘seqkgu QNOT ‘e3ePy ALAA /09xO UCD, Qxequopdno.r+ 
(seqAgu ‘eqep ’03xeQU0d) soqAgejtamgaaI dial 
| pn nmn nn nn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn renner nnren narra seqkgeqtimdadl ---------- s/ 


: (XWO ddI) unger 
{ (sepeezpuny) JoozTS =+ uoTATSOd<-3xe {UCD 
* Caouen Sod) nes 
((2epeegpmy) zoezTs ’apEpp<-3xeqQu0oy(, FLAG) ‘OTTJ<-3xe QUOD) oar ae) 
< 0) ZF 
(0 = <«egzogse7zAq<-3xe {UCD 
!@ZTSIO = OZTSIO° APIPIO<-3.xXeWUCD 
‘apm = CIA0° 4pEPPO<-3xeQUCO 


: (YOM TINATTO) uanje.r 
( pumog<-3xeQU0D < EZTSqUTU + UOTZTSOd<-3xe {U0 
37 © (pumnoq<-3xe UO) een 3T 


{ 
‘ (Sows INATTO) unqer 
(o =i a a 3T 
‘ (OMIT -LNATTO) unqes : A [nezop 
‘yeerq :IWD eSeO <:ISIT eseO :WuoOd eseo 
} (app) wsTAs 
} (TINN = Queszed<-yxeQU00) JT esTe 
‘ (dowIaINAITO) uanjes 
(o0= app Il SINNED TION =! APIO’ 4pHPio<-3xeQU0D ) ZT 
/e(°°°SGI TeBOTTT steq3O 4AOz 23OSYD PTNOCo / 
/-°S@pOD 10118 JOJ pesn pue Tebe[ TT ere senTeA GI SATZTSOd-uou ‘osTy s/ 
/+ SLTZ @ JO TEAST doj EM Ae TWD 40 ‘ISIT ‘WYOT GUO UeTR JETRO 
©TIM 02 pexse 10 xuNG & epTsuT Apeeite e1,04 JT YOM LNAI +/ 


/4seqkq eztsquym =< ~ungo Teotshad ,/ ‘ (xepeepppuny) JoezTs = EZTSqUTW ONOT 
$09xeQqUCD = 4xXeEQUOO, AxeQUODdNO.D 4sSeAsTbe.r 
} {@ZTS9O ONOI ‘APP GI /03xe QUOD, QxeQuODdNoID 
(ezTSP ‘APP ’03xeqUCO) spEPH AN, Asal 
[ponnnnn nent tenner nen n nn nn nnn nse scccoccscsoren APIPDAN ---9------ +/ 


: (dzz7) umes 

$( (3xeQu00) puprpjng )d3z 131 

[( (eztep “eqep ’3xeQU0D) sezAgeqTamaal )dZZIFI 

S( (eztgp ‘app ’3xe4QUOCD) apEPH nd )dzz131 
‘wows INAITIO = GIF 

( uMCUMEX_ONZS = EZTOHP ) JT 


¢ eeg O'Mj3T OB6T ZZ70T € Ady 


B- 91 


Pa 
‘ ([d3zt-] sebessoygazar ’ ,u\s%,,) squtad 
‘({t] abuse ’,u\ s% erty pees 3, upTnoD ,)z34uTad 
} (aNOd-aaI =i G33) 3T 
! (@TTZ) SSOTD 
‘(CoTTwdTaD ‘ouresrguqrp? ‘deuntas; ‘eTtz)eunjotgpeoy = djjT 
} (©Tt3) ZT 


‘(a7TaqIO “GON ‘ [tT] A6.ze)uedp = ETT; 


} care 
$(,u\, Gweueltz Aeazwqrt, :I'1D wos ebesp,) zqUTad 
} (z > cbse) ZF 
/-~ °*K10Q0@ITP YUELMO JOJ AOOT & SEW “IID ETA pexoaul »/ 
} (cb2e) ZT 


‘(0)aTxe (TINN=esegxXzD) JT 

‘(0° ,AresqT T° sopudes6,,) Aresqy¢ quedo (NOT) = esegxzD 
‘({opjeureuz aZLAGN 

f@eITZ “IZ ONOT 


} ‘fabsegy seqo ‘fobse que (Abze ’o6.1e) TEU PTOA 
‘ud = []woataszep aLxan 


J eeeesEsUSSEBERERESEREETESESTEELESELEEPELERESESESESEST ET ESET ES ESS () upeu vx/ 


seMeszUqTy ewetIWaTI 


/+° yewesZ YOTTO, TereT doy, ,/ 
/»°MOTeq 3THTP pertsep qqTA peceidey »/ 


{ 

/ (0) umqer 

‘ (PLT) SOTO 

‘ (z» (yadea<-wq>>T) “STOO ‘eTTS oe 
‘qeeaq (eztstd>qu) ZF 
‘(eztstd ’[t]seueta<-wq ‘eTt3)e3T4M = qu 

} (++F Sqqdeq<-wgq>t ‘oQ=T) 403 

{SMOY<-Uiq,MOytegse7Ag<-uq = oe 
/+ ©ltz-peot e uedo quptnoo y/ :(T-) umjes 
‘ (eureu’,,u\ s¥ uedo 3,upTnoo ,) J3uT4d 

} (0 = eTTS )3T 

‘ (@ITaMAN-AGON ‘Sureu )uedO = STTS ONOT 

‘@ZFSTd’qu ONOT 

‘TF = 

‘STOO, LYOHS 

swq, dewatd jon14s 

seureuy ALAGN 


/~ Gem 10TOO eaes ,/ 


(S100 ‘wq’eureu) dewaTgoaes 


@ eed O°meAZWAIT OGET ZZ0T E Ady 


404 = []5ups3sqadep sey 
‘{0} = deuntq dewjtg ons 


| grrr nnn nnn rrr rrr rrr ere n nnn arc ccennccccccccnncwre e/ 
sesegx3Q ONOT 
:{ 
pegdsy = /ed aT Avas/ 
q4uoysisyw /sINNMHD LYOHSs/ 
wio36sy  /yNaOT dvds/ 
*JOLIFQUCTIDOSW /x8OMIT INSITOs/ 
‘EITaONosW o/s ONs/ 
‘20NHSW /g TAT LONs/ 
‘sogisy /saOmwT SOds/ 
‘euogosw  /sANO0 dal s/ 
‘yszewpughsy = / WW CNAs / 
*Aenoisy /sXWi0 dal y/ 
} = ([t+aOwN IsvI-] sebessongzar, eyo 
/ettaaddO LHOIY NI JSHHL 129 ISOW x/ 
‘{ ‘TTS gar pet6uew e (gar awd) -----. } = Opegisy szeyqo 
,ecebessem sty3 305 noA ptp MoH (NNHD LYOHS) ----- uw + = [D)qu0usisy azego 
{ ,ceebessou sTuA 3e6 nod pip Aon (WYOT GWE) -----u } = [Jwiogisy sexo 
{,°5nq sexpeqD gaI (SOMMT INSITO) -----u } = [Ja0211gQUeTTOSsW seYO 
{ ,°pumoz ETT yons ou (ATIF ON) -----u } = [Je ttaonbsy azeyo 
‘{ ,°SLTF gal we Rou (gaT ION) -----y } = []20nNbsy szeyo 
‘{ ,°ao11e ue xoeq eve SOd SUL (YOWNT SOM) -----u } = D)soqg6sy =zeyo 
‘{ ,2ee6essou styA 306 noA prp Moy (ANO7 dal) -----u } = [leucgisp seu 
‘{ ,eeebesseu stu 306 noA prp MAOH (RWW UNA) -----u } = [)>2ewpugisy sexo 
‘{ 4°SLT aal pool w (xAWNO agI) ----- wu } = ()Aeroisy zeyo 
I aaa aaa aaa / 
i sefessoul 10.110 JjJI “4 
eer ee * 
wd’ OFPAS/SOFAAET,, SPNTOUTH 
TION JOpUNH 
yt’ OOTTeues/JJT,, SpnTOUTH 
wd’ 2OFdpees/JFT,, OPNTOUTH 
ut’ UQIT/JZT,, OPNTOUTHE 
yd’ SUSQXeSOp/SOTAeACTT,, SPNTOUTH 
wt’ SOp/SeTszeaqyT,, SPNTOUTH 
ud’ TTeN{uy/JJT,, OpnTOuT# 
[gnessetessersscenr aera ssa ee sn ee er arte eran ee ern v/ 
/s Atuo IID oraz STAETTED x/ 
/ ¥ x/ 
/s -zegndmoo efhTuy-e10pouMIOD SY} AOJ UOCTSISA STU] x / 
/s ¥ 
/s ‘ufeuop OTTqnd ey} UF ST ereNQjos STUL ;/ 
i: *Squy OTUOIQOeTA ‘MES GABIS pue UOSTLIOW Asser Ag w) 
¥ ¥ 
/s dew 10[0o eq Aq pemor[oy ejzep deuntq jo seuetd eq3 asnf ,/ 
/* ST UOTUM ‘QeULIOJ MEA SQndQnO ‘WATI UT speoy ,/ 
/s 98/t/Z / 
/s O°ABIZUQTT »/ 
| preeo nnn ne nnn nnn errr ern eter erence rsoscrnrescswcssawocnaranann e/ 


T ebeg O'MeATWIIT GSOET UZ:0T E Ady 


B - 92 


/e yty FO f/f, WPT 
eq} 20qge sueqoetey> GuyuTeqoo uT.qs & sume. STR ¢/ 


:{ 
pegisy = /yaaT ves / 


} = (t+xouud Lsv1-] sobessopygigaI,y azeqo 
/ett@adeO IHOIY NI aSSHL L#9 ISAW +/ 


‘{ ,°STTZ agar pet6uem e (garava) -----. } = Dpegisy seqo 

{ ,2ee6essou sty3 306 noX ptp mo ()INNHD LYOHS) -----« } = []3u0yshsw sexo 

{ ,y2eebessou stq3 306 nod ptp ao (WaOT dvd) ----- } = (Jwr0g6sy zeyo 

{,,°6nq zee" aaI (OWNT NAITO) -----« }= a AOLITAUST OOS Teo 

{ 4*punoz ETTJ Yons ou (TIF ON) ----- uw + = [J°ttaon6sy zeyo 

{ ,°©t3 aaI ue Jou (gaI ION) -----u } = []30nN5sq azeyo 

‘{ ,°40128 ue xoeq eveH sod SUL (HOM SOd) -----u } = [)sogisw eyo 

!{ ,2eebessem styq 306 noX ptp moy (NOW aaI) -----u } = [Jeuogisy «eyo 

‘{ ,eeebesseu stq3 366 nok ptp soy (EWWONG) -----4 } = [J)»zewpugisy eyo 

‘{ 4°@TTZ gar poo’ w (xwi0 aaI) ----- u } = D)Aexpisy aeyo 

aaa aa +/ 

ys seBessoul 10.118 JZI + 
Se 8 6 6 ee 8 8 8 eee re ee ae te ge an 3 

wt’ OFPAS/SOTIAALT,, EPNTOUTH 

TION JOpun¢ 


yt’ OOTTeweas/JZT,, OpNTOUTH 

wt’ JOTdpeEes/JZF,, OPNTOUTH 

ut WQlT/JIF 4 OPNTOUTH 

wd SueqxXesop/SeTIeIGTT,, SPNTOUT HE 
yd SOp/SeTzesqyT, SpN[ToOuT# 

wd’ TTeENQUT/ZJ3FF, SpnTOuTH 


/s ea cig Ee ee SS See See Sr ae eee i Bee ea eee / 


/s 986T ‘Te uer ;x/ 
i; XINO I'D Woraz STAeTTeD y 
¥ ¥ 
As *zeQnd0S eHhTuly-er10pouMloD SY} AOJ UCTSIOA STU] x /, 
¥ ¥ 
/s ‘uTeuop OTIqnd eqy UT ST S7eMQzZOS STUL y/ 
i “Sq OTUOIQOOTY ‘MES GASIS pUe UOST-LIOW Auer Ag 
¥ ¥ 
/s “SOIT D ut BuppntouT s0z) y/ 
/_- ‘vot ZeQUeSeAde1 TTOSe Qno squTAd ‘WATI UT spees :o-GimqNaTI +/ 
/s x/ 
[pomon nnn n nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nn nnn nn nen enna nnserserncrnnrnre x/ 


T eeg o-cumpwqit 986T ZZ:0T E Ady 


ce 
oo 
{ a 
‘ (0) axe a 
: Cngec nee 
{ 
: (,u\,,) zauFad 


‘ ({o] souetg’ deuntq)eeigmey ([o]seueta'deujtq) zt 
S({t]abze ‘,u\ °s% :ettz uedo 3,uprtnop ,)zQuTad este 


{ 
{ 


‘ (deysotoo eurergzuqTy ‘deunto ‘eureuz) deyatgones 


‘ (eueuy ’,u\ S% ETTs Supqees ,)Z3uUTAd 


‘(Gutsasqjdep ‘sureuj) 7e0.24S 
‘qqdeq’deuntq + ,0, = [o]5utsasujdep 
2(,°T’, ‘Sureuz) qeo.14s este 
ere ‘eureuy) 7eO1QS eSTS 
2(,7a°,, ‘eueuz) 3e0.14S 
(ooz < 3ubteqebed* app’ euerRUQTT) ZT 
} (oze < waptmebed: appmq cures zuqTt) JT 


‘ ([t] a6.1e ‘eureuz) Acdo.4s 


¢ ebeg O'MeAZMQTT 9B6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


{ 

‘ (0) xe 

‘ (esegxz5) ee 
{ 
‘ (,U\,) 33uF ad 


‘({Lo] seuetg’deuntq)eesguey 9([0] soueta’deuntq) ZT 


‘([t]a6ae ‘,u\ °sZ :etty uedo 3,uptnop ia a 
{ 
‘ (dz) esozoz 
‘ (as ‘eureu ‘dy ’deun to) deynqut adn 
: (,,f,, “@ureuz) uedoy = dy 
‘ (,,0° —» “eureuz) qeozqs 
? ( [1] a62e ‘eureuz) Ado.4s8 


¢ ebeg o-cimpwqrt 9996T ZZ:0T € Ady 


: (({t] aA6.ze ‘eureu) xt zzns 089 
‘([t] Abuse’ ,u\ o°sX% erty Supzees ,) sQuTAad 
on 
‘ ((d3z7-] sobessopgqar’ ,,U\sZ,,) y3UuTAd 
'({t] abe ’,u\ s% ertz pees 3, upTnog ,,) squad 
} (aNod-aaI =i G33) 3T 
! (@TTZ) eSOTO 
‘(cottwdtup ‘euresaguqrys ‘deuntas ‘erty)emjofgpeey = dj3zF 
} (@ETt3) ZF 


‘(a1Taq1O aGON ‘[T]A6.1e)uedo = eTTZ 
‘goatagzep :(z]abse ¢(z<o61e) = as 


a 
£(,Uu\ 8,37 TATA 8,8 Andgno of ASTT RPMS 09 9, PPY 4) FqUTId 
‘(,U\(zeTTe29 pue sepeey on) eTAds peqoejqay : ue ,)3z3uTAd 
£(,u\(4eTte2q pue sepeey WQTM) eq74ids peqoejjy : @ 4) 33uUTad 
!(,U\(Sp40M sz0eTTe23 pue szopeey oN) QeULI0y Ee TAds : us ,)33uUTad 
‘(,U\(Sp20m szeTTe23 pue sepeey WTA) JYeul10j eRTAdS : s ,)3QuTad 


2(,U\ = Suy24s-qoqtas eszeya ,,) J3UTAd 
!(,U\,5up2q3s-qoqtas eureuettz GimqNdTI, :I'ID wosz ebesp,,) z3uT 4d 
} (Z > c6ae) ZF 
/= *Kit0{O@ATP YUELIMNO JOJ HOOT & OFEW ‘ITD CTA peroaur y/ 
} (cbse) ZT 


‘(0)atxe (TINN=eSegxXzD) FT 

‘(0° ,AreaqrT sopade.6,,) Aresqyquedo (QNO1) = esegxsD 
‘(opjeureuz ’[opjleuweu arxan 

Sects ‘d33F ONOT 

‘Jy TI1ld 

‘MS, ZLXAGN 


:(,u\(arnezep) yeui0z qog : <buTqjOu> sau 


‘4% = Qwataszep aLxan 

JRRSERESESESERESEEESTESESEEEEESESESTTREETAEET EES E EEE EEES TEESE EES () uyeut sv/ 
/-° yeWeAZ QUETIO, TOAST dol y/ ‘emerqUqTyT CuetINaTI 

‘{o} = deuntq dewatd jon.4s 


sesegxjJ ONOT 

{ 

ee ee 
3 = 43 (,:, =>) JT este 
s= 43 (,/, = 9°) 3T 
yeoiq (0 = 9) JT 
°+4+8, = 9 

} (++F! f0=7) a0z 

‘aJ = Sy’ FLKAN 


‘| Quy 


z eg o-Gampuqit 9e86T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B - 94 


/+° (T-petttau] 2033nq: * [9] zezznq ebuer S1OACD MON ,/ 
/-° AeFING EGR JO QUOI EYR OF EVEp HuTAsTxXe eYyR SACH y/ 


/_° OIC peat O02 peon ,/ 
} (seqkgnoygnq > peTItau) JF 
/-e3ep seq pred stuy ;y/ ‘Aqauqu - ezysjnq = perttau 
/-°4e33Nq Jo pred AQdws Jo ezts ;/ faejgnq - gjnq= Aqduqu 
/_°MOL YxOU SsoiduoouN 02 SeqAq YHnous YseeT Qe UT peoy ,/ 


{ 
‘yngTInug =  yseqd 
S4seqttnu = jngttnu 
} (TINN = 3seqd,) 3T 
/y°euetd pequeaun Aue s0j HUTS © GSTIGeIS_ »/ 


‘ [euetagy] seueTdy = qseqd 


} (++ouetgy ‘quQeueT@OUS > eUeTAT ‘0 = eUeTdT) «103 
} (--mour /0 < MOUT {SMOyU = MOYT) 40Z 
/-°Kqcme Atquesmo st sejjng y/ ‘eztsjnq + szejjnq = jnq 
/-¢° OZFSING SOTJFPOU UCTYesSzT YSET :SATAIGOW 
‘SMO1 SSOIGIOOSEp pue soueTd SAPeTIEQUT-Eg yx 
*deuntq S,AUeTTO OAUT SqUEWUOD ZGOd SYR pecy »/ 


‘seqAgmnoyous =- ezTsynq 

‘seqAgmoyous =+ Jejyjnq 

:Jeygnq = Aseqt nu 

/-'souetd pequemun wo1z sHot Jo UCTIeUTASep Aummp JoJ yuTS e dn eS ¢/ 


{ 
/-°3UN0S UT eUeTd yAseu epnTour y/ ‘T =+ JupeUeTQOUS 
/-° OAS UeqA SOUeTAASp S10ul ESeO UT v/ ‘TION = [3U9eueTgQO4s] soueTd 
este 
/<'STQ E10JOq sseqUTOd-eueTd TINN ©F TITM E1643 “SOUETAISP » 
ueyy SOUeTGO’S e1oml ere e1eyR JI x/ ‘ySeW = [QUDeUeTGoO1s] soueTd 
(TIAN =i 4SeU) JF 
} (asewserpisu = Suyyseu<-spyuq) JF 
/-°20TS ,Seuetd, Suppuodse.zioo ojuy 24d euetd yseu Aue AdoD y/ 


‘TION = [euetat]seuetd 
(++ouUeTGT ‘soueTdoisxey > eueTgy ‘ ) A0j 
‘ [euetgy] souetTa<-deuqtq(,s axa) = [euetgr]seuetd 
(++eueTda? ‘yqdeq<-deuntq > eueTdt ‘0 = euel gt) A0J 
/-°8201S AQdwe ut TION ‘saqd deuqtq qaqa ,souetd, Aesste ezyTeTITUL »/ 


{smoy<-deuntq = sMoyu 
(smoy<-deuqtq < smoyu) JT 


£ (YOM INATTO) uanjes1 
( seueTqoisxewm < QUDeUeT Qos 
{1 z » seqgaoygng > ezysynq 
{| moysegseqAg<-deuqgtq =; se qkgmoyous ) JT 
/~@TpUeY 2,US80P XGOGISD UOTFSASAUOD e 1OJ pexse QUETIO JT UTeTdICD ,/ 


‘ (dOWsT LNAT'IO) unje2 
(TunyezAgdim < uoTsseidmco) JT 


vy eeg O°amqIT S86T LZ:PT € Adv 


/~ Asem 9 souetTd 02 siqd jo Avie y/ ‘[souetgoigxep] souetd, Fix 
Sqseqds, ‘JNQTINuy “QSeEqTINU, “JNGs ALA 
/PELITau GuOM 4AeqsTbe1 


‘UOTSSe1dN0O<-IpHuqd = UOTSSejduoD UOCTSSe1dulCD 
'Y<-aApHUq = SMOYU QUT 
! (seqAgnoyo.s) ezTsperxpegxey = SeqAgMoysnd ONOT 
‘ (m<-1zpHuq) seqAgnoy = seqAgaoyois CyOM 
‘soue[dqUu<-spyUd = QUpeueTGOAs _LXGN 
‘d3Z¥ dial ae 
‘OZTSING ONOT /2073NGy ALAA ‘4APHUq, Jepeoxde; TA 
‘yseuly FLX ‘deuntq, deyAtd 2onzys {3xe QUOD, Jxequopdnog 
(eztsynq ‘szezznq ‘spyuq ‘ysem ‘deuntq ’3xe WUC) AGOGIeD dial 
/_ ‘wauBacd 02 pue (peey SOT 03 Su0je18eUqR 
pue) seqkgpeeygzgrI 03 STIeS tomes sez erfem prnom 47 ‘4ezznq pettddns , 
eq} JO Siow posn AF JT 4O¥SeZ JOTI & OQ PINS UoTIEQUSwWSTGUT STUL :ALON +/ 
| pr nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn KGOG3°9 ---------- e/ 


{ 
‘ (xWIO aa) ease 


/~30K euetd yseu 403 pequnos 3,ueAeq y/ 


: % << entq’bey10jToo 
1 (bv >> ( % << uees6-Beysotoo 
| (e@ >> (% << pes Bbeysojoo = ++deqso[oo, 
‘ () agape 
{ (a9ysTBey10Topzoezts ‘BeytoT0o7(, aLAG) ‘3xequogmaTt) seyAgpeeyaal = d53T 
} (sBbegtotogu-- ‘9 < sbeysoToqu { ) 403 
/y e20eqy ATTen}QOe szEquMU EY} OF 3S x/  ‘sBeysoToou = sheyszo[oondy 
‘sboytOTOQNd, = sHeysoTopu (sheysoToDu > sheysoToondy) ZT 
‘aeysTbeysoloagoezyts / SZTSHO' ApEPIo<-AxXeQuogMgTT = sbeysoToju 


‘Bey1oTOO 410ASTbeytoToD 

‘d33¥ dadI sA093sTbe1 

{sBheyszo[opu quy aeqsTbe.s 

} 

‘SBeY4OTOONGs ALXAN ‘GewtoTOo, YOM ‘{3xXEQUODUIQTT, Jxequogdno 
(sHeytoToond ‘deysopoo ‘AxequODmqTT) dvWDIeD didI 
/-s'peest AT TeEn}oe sequmMU eT OF SES dVWDISD “PTOU OF eoeds Sey ASTTeO 

S1SYSTHeyAOTOD Jo sequmu eyR 02 sequTod e Se UT pessed st sbeysoroond ,/ 
aaa aaa aa GWHDIED ---------- e/ 


wt DUQLTt/JFT,, SPNTOUTH 
wt’ texoed/z3F,, SpNTOUTH 


[yonnnnnonnnnnnnnenne nce nnnenn cnn n ene n nnn enneennnenno nee cnnn ene nncensne : 
*soqndmoo ehTuy-e10pouMOD Sl} AOJ UCTSAOA STU] » 


¥ 
‘ufewop OfTqnd eyy UT ST ExreEMAJOS STUL ¢ 
*Squy OTUCIQCeTYZ ‘Meus EASES pue UOST 110" Aurer Ag x 


¥ 
(-etta yeu103 eGueqosz0equI ST a3I) ¢ 


S8/L27/TT “SOLTJ WITI Suppees s0z soutqno1 zu0ddng d° wT! j 
Fe eee ee ¥ 


T e6eg O°WOIT 986T LZ:PT © Ady 


B- 95 


(qadep ‘deysojtoo ’3xe,U0S) dyAOINd dz 
[| prenn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn n nnn nnn nner nnn nnn GWWDIN ----------4% / 


{ 
‘( xwio "aa : BOWMTUINAITO 2 (seqAgno2) ado sI ) umes 


{ 
{:eeaq ‘q0edsyo0px079A = QoedsyA<--zpRUq 
fqoedsyo0px0pox = Aoodsyx<-spHuq} 00% eseo 
{.7eeaq ‘qoedsyo0zx0p9A = oedsyA<-4pHuq 
Sqoedsyo0zx079x = Aoedsyx<-1pHuq} 7007 esed 
} (au6teqeGed) wo TAs 
(ov9 = sid aaa 3T este 
{‘xeesq ‘qo0edsyoopxozeA = QoedsyA<-.zpqUq 
Snoedsyo0px0zex = Qoedsyx<-apHuq} :00% eseo 
{‘.7eeaq ‘qoedsyoozxozeA = oedsyA<-apyuq 
Sqoedsyooz7x0zex = Aoedsyx<-apHuq} :007 eseo 
} (au6teqebed) yo3Tas 
(oze = aaptmesed) ZT 


‘quSjeqebed = yuptepebed<-apyuq 


es tapTmebed< -zpquq { 
ST = qoedsyA<-apymq = oedsyx<-spHuq ? (XWHO aaI) unqe. 
Topqueredsuety = 10ToDquetedsuet3<-ApHU 
£9 = Tped<-apywq { 
ee = ee { 
‘buyyseu = Suy4seu<-apHUq : (Wao ava) U.nqe41 
‘qqdeq<-deuntq = movi aus <-APHU /+ seykaqsp ‘sezkgous ‘qseqd ‘eoimogd ,/ 
/«° (0’0) St UoTaTSod qInejeg s/f ‘0 = A<-spHOg = X<-4ApHU ( (seqdgnoyous ‘pertTtqu ‘3seqd “gneep) a0 aowppedun ) JF 
ismoy<-deuqytq = a <-ApHUq /, eueTd uct eUuTASep OF AO a eee xe 
f€ >> SeqAgMo. = A<-IpHUq rah 
‘moystedseAg< -deuqtq = seqAgnost daomM t03sTbe1 SseqAgnoyois =+ Qseqd, 
‘Q4pHUq = IPH, sepeeqdewatd se qsTbe. iseqAgnoyois = znq 
} ‘ (seqAgnoyous ‘jseqd, ‘jn nq) wamAcet 
‘qubjeqebed ‘qaptmebed ayoM ‘ (WOT ava) Unger (sezAgmoyous > peTITau) JT 
/+ Ma0MN y/ ‘40 ToD3uezedsuetQ CaOM } (euondum = uoTsseiduoo) JT 
/= UOTSSeAdDoD ;/ SUOTSSEAGIOO COM /- ouetd uoT{eUyTASep OF AO1 gentle ae Kdop »/ 
/+ Supisem »/ :buyyseu CeOM 
‘deuqTq, dewatg 2on44s ‘o.pHUq, sopeoxdewata { 
(qubyeqebed “uapTMsbed ‘o = Aydngqu 
JoTopqueredsue.q ‘uopsseiduoo ‘Huypyseu ‘deunyq ‘O-pHUq) pPHWAATUI dadI ‘eztsznq = peti tau 
[grnenn nnn nn nnn nn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn enn nnr nent nnn APHNEATUI ----------% / ‘2933nq = znq 
ul WITT/JFF, OPNTOUT# : () aaaPPCSTD 
yw seped/z3T,, EpnTouT# : (Aadugu ‘[perttau] zezzneqy ’3xe3uU0) seqlqpeeyial = 4331 
[| prrnn nn nnn nnn nn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nnn rrr rrr nner rng /+° ezep HuyysTxe eqy oO 03 ejzep neu puoddy ,/ 
Jeqnduos ehtury-e10opoumoy Seq A0J UOTS4BA STU ‘ 
"uyewop 9 oTrqnd eq} UT ST exeMQzOS STUL ¢ Je WU-WT s/ ‘Aydugu + perttau = eztsznq 
*Sqly OTUCAQDeT_ ‘Meus eneqS pue uosTtioW Auer Ag ‘ (3x U09) sezigetoypunty) = A3duqu 
* / 9° OJIN EH TITZ O 03 33eT 9034q Ynoue 3,Uere eveUL »/ 
(-etta yeutog eHuew.zequ St JAI) } (Goeqnos) seakgeucyerm < Ayduqu) 3T 
98/€z/T *SOLTZ NATI SuTataa 203 seuTqno.s quoddng O’MNETII +s 
Gon nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nena nner nner nrnnnns / /~°2274q 09 Buyaou eq pInoD »/ ‘:(petitau ‘2ez33nq ‘°znq)weuAcH 


T seg OMIT OG6T ZZ:0T € Ady ¢ e6eg O°-ANNIT 9G6T LZ:eT © Ady 


‘ (euetgt] soueta<-deuntq(, aLxa) = [euetgy] souetd 
(++oueTay ‘y3deqjsp > euetdy ‘9 =-eueTdy) 03 
/»+ ysouetd, Aerre [TeooT ojUT seuetd yxseu 9 3Tq 02 sad eum Adon ,;,/ 


2(t : 0 2 TINN = 4SeW) + IAdeqjsp = WHeueTd 


: (Sows LNATTO) uanje. 

/,ouT ANA STYR 103 Aue 003 »/ ( aqdequyxey < uydeqjsp. 

/~= AUESTSUCOUT y/ i! «dadeqasp > wwdeg<-deuntq 

/-queystsucouT ,/ [1 (a<--pHmq) sazAgmoy =; 903Agno4 

/= Aue YsTsUCOUT ,/ [| U<-apHuq =| sMoy<-deuntq 

. /» 5re peq ,/ i} TunygeqAgdip < uoTsse.iduco 
7 »mod psidmoo e zezznq 3st x/ || (se3Agno.1) eztspexpeaxen > ezTsynq ) ZT 
/~ Asem 9 souetd 03 siqd jo Aerte y/ ‘(T + Udequyxey] seuetd, aLAq 
[3NQs ALAA 


iseqAgmoyperped ONOT t0qsTbe4 

‘aoyy ‘eUeTgF QUT seqsTbe.s 

/~ xseu Buypntout seuetd 37q Jo szequmu y/ Squgeuetd 3uyt 
‘uOTSSe1d0D<-IpHig = UCTSSei1dulc0o uoCTSseiduloD 

‘seue[qu<-apHg = YAGeq3sp 4UT 

‘moytegsezAg<-deuntq = seqAgnot ONOT 


:dz3F an 
{ ‘eZTSJnq ONOT ‘%2esjNdy ALAC ‘4pHUq, stepeoyde;Nta 
£ (dgz7) umqe1 ‘yseuly AIX ‘deuqtq, dewatd yonys ‘/QxeQU0D, ZxeQUODdNOID 


(eztsgnq ‘sezznq ‘apyuq ‘yseu ‘deujtq ‘3xeQU0d) XGOdINd dzal 
/+ * (®3T4M SOd 03 S4ojozEeNR yo 
pue) seqzAgeqTamddI 03 STTVO temez sey Exe pINom 4 “4ezznq pettddns , 
{ ey JO SLO pesn ZF JT ASWSeJ JOT & OQ PTNOS uoTIEQUeWSTANT STUL AION +/ tt 


‘ (qxeqQu0o) pupip3nd = djzT 
/+ wUNYO eT YSTUTY »/ 


{ a ac aa a ACOINd -ne-e----- / 
‘ () aaaPpeup { 
{ : (d33T) uUINn_et 
‘ (seqzkguoyperped ‘29zznq ’3xeqU00) sezAge3T Maal = d33zT ¢ (3xeqQuU09) puppandg = dT 
‘(seqAgnor ‘znay ‘[eueTgy] seuetdy) Aowpeg = seqAgnoyporjoed 

ssezgnq = jnq { 

, } este ‘ depAs0[O0++ 

/-'MOL 3XOU OATIK pue ssoudiOD ,/ : () daaPppewd 

! (saqsTbeysotogzoezts ‘Beysoptooy(, aLxq) ’3xe U0o) seqAgeqTamaal = G37 

{ £03x0 9 ( % >> Gewsortoo, ) = entq:beysojtoo 

‘seqkgmor =+ [ouetgy] souetd £03x0 9 Cep1OTOO, = ueet6-Beyto[Too 

‘ (seqkgmox ’[euetay]seuetd ’3xequ00) sezAge3tamaaI = G33 £03x0 9 ( & << deyuotoo, ) = per'Beyiotoo 
} (euoNduD =< uoTsse.dm0s) ZT } (sGeysoTopu-- ‘sheysojtoqu { ) 40j 

[9° ROL YXOU O2T4M »/ 
| : () aaaPPetD 
} (+seuetgy ‘quoeuetd > euetat ‘0 = euetdt) 03 £ (aegsTBeysopopzoezTs y sHeysoTooU ‘dYWO I ‘3xeIU00) ApEPHand = dzJT 
} (--noe 9 < MOT *4<-4pH = MOU) sti ‘u<Adep >> T = sfeyuoToou 
# SQUSQUCS AGOd SG} 3NO O{TIM + : >Ts 
‘qqdaquyxey = (dep =  (y3dequyxey < UQdep) ZT 
‘ () aaaPpPewD ; 
S (UMOUNREXIONZS ‘XGOH AI ’3xeqU0S) wpEPINANY = dzzF ‘Beyisotoo seqstbeys0jo 
/» sppeey UND XGO & Wo ©{TM / ‘i337 daal 
; , ‘sHeys0[OOu ONOT eo 
‘yseu = [qqdeq3sp] seuet 
(TION =3 4Seu) ZT ‘uandep AIAGN ‘dewso0Too, HOM /3xe U0, pxreQUODdNo.+D 


€ e6eg OMIT ORET ZZ70T E AdW vg ebeg O°MNQIT SBET EZ:0T E Ady 


{ 
$ (ezTsaqnd) uanje. 
‘qsep = 3seqd, 
feomMos = soumosdy, 
{ 
Syeeaq { (o4seT ’341eRS1-Jnqu)UMAANO :NNY Seseo 
‘qeeiq ‘ (ynqu)dumqyno :qWnd sseo 
} (@epou) qwTAs 


{ 
fo = O4seT 


{ 
eae 
‘awnd = epou 
£0 = Qaeqsa ‘TT = gnqu 
‘a= [o]gnq 
£ (oqseT ’3.1e9S.1-T-Jnqu) unyWANO 
/+ Uns Andgno ,/ 
} ((unaxey < qzeqss-znqu ) || (oaset =i ©) ) JT ¢:NNY eseo 


/yeoeiq 
/~ UNL JO ASATZ y/ {T-ynqu = 71eAs4 2 
/-'uns © 7 eso Suprem Aq esoT 3,uUeo OS 
‘sse.Hoid ut Gump ou ,/ ‘NOY = epour 
(9 == 71e9sS4) ay care 
: -NNY = epou 
¢(qazeqs.1) dimqqno (0 < 24e3841) JT 
} (unguIW =< 71eIS4-jnqu) JT 
} (eC3seT = 2°) ST 


{ 


$0 = qeqsa 0  /T = gnqu 
7o = [o]znq 
$ (T-3nqu) dumq3no 
} (aeaxep<znqu) JF 
/+ eyep SqW uETy 
‘eqhq YAbueT E4R SITIA “TIN ST 4e35Nq OUR ZI +/ 
:aWnd eseo 
} (epow) wo TAs 
‘ ()eqAgjen = 0 = [++3nqu] znq 
} (eztTgnoa-- ‘ezyzgmor ‘) soz 


/-"uazee e7hq UO SOUTS y/ $--OZTSMOL ‘fT = Jnqu 

/» CSET PTTEA eAey os yf ‘ ()eAGIeN = 0 = ORSeT = [o]3nq 
‘0 = eztsqnd 

‘qseqd, = 3sep 

Seommogd, = Sonos 


g o6eg o-ueryped 9g6T zzZ:0T € Ady 


29 = Aaejsa Quoys 
!0 = gnqu joys 
‘and = epow 100d 
S,0\, = 03S8eT’O aeyo 
23Sep, “SOINOS, FLAG 
} ‘@zFSMot ONOT *4S8edds, ‘eosnosdss FLAG 

(eztsno1r ‘yseqd ’eo.mogd) aoywfoed ONOT 
/°Seykq pexoed Jo QuM0S sNNIAY *S4equtod uoTAeuy{sSep 

pue eo.mos ey Buyzepdn ‘moa euo sped ‘SYAINIOd OL SYSINIOd UAT +/ 

[prem n nnn nnn nnn rn nn nr MOYO’ ----------- v/ 


/~e S¥TCYS UNA QUOELUND XEpUT sezznq »/ 
/~= Je33Nq UT Srey Jo szequmU y/ 


(oo ‘uu ’gsop)unyqng = ysep (90’uu) uNYyANO eUTJEpH 
(uu. ’;sep)dumqjng = 3sep = (uu) dmq3no SuTzepi#t 


{ 
{ (3sep) umjes 
‘ (90) e3Agjng 
‘ ((t-uu) -) e7Agang 
} {00 ‘uu QUE {9Sep, aLAG = (00 ‘uu ’QSep)uNyaNdy FLAG 
{ 
‘ (asep) uanje.s 
‘({t]gnqjeykgang «(+47 Suu > F 40 = F) 403 
¢ (T-uu) eqAgqng 
{Tut 
} ‘uu guy ‘sep, aLAq (uu ‘Qsep)dumainds aLAd 


/xéyOeYS UO eEzT eq PInoys [dal] +/ ‘[9Sz]3nq «eyo 
(2) e3Agang euTzep# 


()e7Ag3e0 eUuTsJop# 
sezzsand ONOT 


{ ‘eztsand++ /(0) = ++3S0p, } 
(++9804N0S,) 


8ZT 3eAXeN SUTJOPH 
6ZT uNnyxeW SUT JOpH 
€ UNQUTW SUTJOPH 


T NNY SUTJOpH 
0 dWNd SUuTsJEpH 


ud’ terxoed/J3IT,, OpntTout# 


Ya Fi cteee scene deee cesta hs ei tae esentne eee Sosa on : 
‘zeqnduco ebTuYy-S10pouMIOD SYR AOJ UOTSIOA STUL 


*dOON : 8zT- 
‘SOUT T+(u-) pezeede.1 eq 03 e7hq Aq pemortos = [uzt-*'T-] 
-eqep jo seqhq T+u Aq pemottoy : [zzT"‘0] 

:seqAq [O1QUC0D 


ea anaa a 


‘uyeuop OFTqnd yy UT ST ErTeMRZJOS STUL ¢ 
"SAW OpUCI{0eTA ‘MeUS SABIS pue UOCST11OW Asser Ag , 


d ¥ 
S8/ST/TT ‘uoTSseidmlo> unt ,TunyezAgdip, 07 eVep Q4eAUCD O° 4exoed . 
Breet ee em mee w owen no eneesree SESS SSSSSFSSSSFCSBVF*SSFVSS**** SF FF FFF QFZQeOeOee2e” ¥ 


I seg o-seryoed g996T zz:0Te Ady 


B - 98 


{ 
!( (AWIOaaI =) 20210337) (100d) ) usmje1 
‘yowIT SOd = A0L1EJ ZT 
(xwIOaaI == 4012833T 999 0 > (ETT) O7eTOOPUNSIT-MD) JT 
: ( Pe, GnosgMesolo ) 41pD 
‘( (axequoguii0;-9) dnozgmpug ) 4412p 


£( (eztsznq ‘sz0ezznq ‘apqUaY “TION ‘wq ‘xe QUODI0J¥) XGOGINd ) 44PD 
£( (uadea<-waq (aLxan) ‘depsotoo ’3xeUODNLI0J°9) aYWDINd ) 44D 
(TINN=idey4o[oo) JF 


‘((apHuep(s ZLXa) ‘(sepeeydeyata)zoezts ‘GHA CI ’3xeqUODULIOJ9) 193Nd) AAP 


( (3xequoymi0y9 ‘WATI-GI ‘UMOUNROXIONZS ‘WHOA °3XOQUODETTI¥7) dnosNMIAe3S) LUM 
£( (umouyMexAONZS ‘AxXEQUCDETTI9 ‘OTT3) JAIMUCKO) APD 


{ 
‘azIsand xdOd = ezTsynq 
‘youu SOd = Aos1933F 
(0 > (azIsanaxXqod-ezTS3nq ‘AZISANA AGOd+4EJTNG ‘STTS)ereTOEGEITIMO) IT 
} (azISana xAGOdsZ < OZTSING WP AWIO AAI == A0110JZT) JT 


ZTS AZISANA AGO SUTJEPH 


/-° aesznq OTH e pue sz8zznq S,xXGOCGINd 


t0q 40z YSnouse-Htq st AT JT ‘dnpeeds 103 eAT4M pesezznq esn ,»/ 


‘( Rebed 

‘mabed 

‘0 

‘TunyezAgdi 

‘euojpisul 

mq 

‘IPEUIS) APHNAPFUL = ACLIOJZF 


g ebeg o-R0TdQgnd ggET ZzZ:0T E€ Ady 


SQxequoguLiog ‘AxXe_UODSETTJ yxeqQuopdno.«) 
‘ ApH ee 
S@Z¥SJNQ ONOT *4eszNQy ALAA 
‘depto[TOo, Ca0M 
‘qebed’meaBbed Guam 
‘ud, Gewatgd 3On4148 ‘STZ ONOT 
(eztsznq ‘sezznq ‘deyotoo ‘yebed ‘mebed ‘mq ‘elty)3°TaINd 00d 


/eesUseREUUEEEUUESOUUESUDEESUESUUESESUSEUUEESEEEUUFEUUEEUEEEEEESEEEEEEEEEEEeyE/ 


/s * (0° 076/33T/ 8 W'OTB/Z3ZT/ 80S) »/ 
/s "STIEO xeosg pue eqysm SuTzfuyuyu 103 [NJesn st ‘Mis Kes ‘sezgnq ebaet wv s/ 
/* ‘BuTayT4a dn-peeds 03 ebe.103s Aresodie3 se pesn 198jjng y/ 
is @UTT ueos pexoed euo 103 yHnoue Htq eq plnoys szezjng y 
¥ ¥ 
/s ‘yseul OU 40J TINN == Seu ut sseg ,/ 
i SLT adaI ue oquy em joTd © Ang y 
¥ ¥ 
/s ()a°Taand s/ 
/uveeevesUVESEUUUESUUUSEUDESUUEESUSESUSESUUERUEEESESEUESERESEEEEEEEEEEEDeESEyS/ 
{ 
(7) uanqer 


{0 = AOLIOJJT 
sAOLIOJJT = F 


‘¥ daal 
() 223331 a 
| eeReeSUNEEUVEEGUSOUUEEDESUVEDESEUESUVESUSESERUSEUVEDUSEUESE¥EEEESEEEEEEEEEEES/ 
n O18Z O02 YF SWESS1 puUe Epod 4011e JJ} SYR SUNQCY / 
n sass32 1 


/eueSRRUUESECUUUESEUUUESESUVESUUUSESUUESEEUESEUUESERUEEEE¥EEEEEREESEEEEEEEEEEs/ 
{1 (uojssesdxe) = s0ssezZT (XWNO aaI == A0ttezZt) Z7} (uoTssesdke) app euyzop# 


$0 = AOLIOJJF daaI OFVeYS 
S WWdegxey_ SUTJOp}H 


wd’ 3OTAQnd/Z3zT, SEpnTouT# 

wt WATT/ZZF, OPNTOUTH 

ut’ OF5/ZZF,, OpntTouT# 

ud’ TIENQUT/Z3T,, SPNTOUTH 
/eeeeeveUUUOUUUUUUUUESESESESSSESESESEESEeEreeeeveveseseeseceeese/ 


/s / 
i *2eqndnoS ehjuy-e10poum0D SY AOJ UCTSICA STUY + 
¥ 3 
/s ‘uyewop OTTGnd exqA UT ST ereAQjos STUL ,/ 
is ‘Sqty OTUO.QCeTY ‘MeYS EASIS pue UoSsT.u0EM Auer Ag 7 
8 ¥ 
/s 98-uer-eZ / 


/= *O°MmqTT/3IT/ 9 WUQIT/J3T/ 88S ‘WATI Ue se sqndqno ‘ebjuy ,/ 
/s ey UO WWE UT dew s0T0o e pue deyntg e ueaTQ * ()3°TGIN »/ 
J eRRRUBEEEEEUEEETEEUTTEETTETTETEETEETTELEFTETTETEEET ES o°Q0TdQnd 5,/ 


T ebeg o-qotdand 9g6T zz:oT Ee Ady 


B- 99 


(sToo ‘ux ‘eTT) dewatapeoy] 100d /~ “@ango;d sTqQ JO seU10> puey-yzeT seddn eq] Aoys SheaTy ¢/ 
{ fuq = dewntq’ oyutses 
wq = ? 


{ dept’ dt 

‘(qqdeq’deantq » ssoy’deuntq , Aoyqzegse zig: dewqtq £ (09) OgASeMTUL 

* (0) seuet a’ deuntq) woyee.1g ‘dag = JOGMeTA’A 

} (fLo)seuetg:deuntq) ZF £ (day) 220g FUL 

} ‘aq, deta qon-gs (wq) de;arqeetg ¢ (a9) MOTAITUL 

‘ { /*= 3F GA0RSe1 UBD GA OS e/ SMBTATIOW<-eSegxsI5 = MBTAPTO 
‘zsd =+ d }  {deptoToo, CaOMN ‘wa, deta yon-ys (deysotoo ‘uq) oTahetdstq 
‘d = [t]soueta<-uq Je crsssenensaaesenrsssSacsessenste ss e/ 

} (+4 Sqqdeq<-wgt /0=T) a0; 
‘ (ortand aNaW| dID awan ‘zsd,qqdeq<-uq)meypotty(y aLxan) = dy aLxGNn /~ 2¥ 9103801 Ue en OF ,/ £0 = MBTAPTIOs ACTA 20n-Q3 
‘SMoy<-uq,Moy.tegse7Ag<-wq = zSd ONOT ‘{0} = da ognetA Qon4s 
‘QUT ‘{o} = A MSTA JONAS 
} ‘aq, deta 3on-qs (wg) dewaTaooTiv ‘ojyuysea ojuysey 2on.143 
‘qi qlogjsey Qon143 
‘(ze]dewo Luons /~ Seay ue GuyAetdstp 203 sTeqotg »/ 
‘{o} = demytq dey;atg ons 
{ i(o)atxe ‘(,u\,)squrza ‘(6su)squrszq } ‘Ssu, seq (6s) ekgpoog proa ‘esegxyoy esegxj) Jon-4s 
| /e®TTZ yt’ y GMOS 206 eA, nok ZF 4» ESeqUOOL QonQs, ‘ATTeNQOW 4/ ‘eSeqUOSI ONOT 
{  ‘(6su)z3uyzd =} *6su, seq (65m) squTig /» Ssequyod eBesn Tezeueb ,/ 
: {8 SEBSt (avedamm eursors 
{ a): (e)2(q)>(e)) (q’e) NIN eUTZOPH 
$ (astt2dpa07: A) astTAdpece.g3 | 
£ (dag) sqstidop710gje0.13 wt’ 2OTEQnd/3Z3T,, OpnTOUTH 
/~= PBTA PTO 02 eq WITAS ,/ ! (M@TAPTO) AOTAPEOT ul UQATT/JJF, SpnTouT# 
} (#®TAPTO) 3T yd’ SUS{XeSOp/SETAEAQTT,, SEPNLOUTHE 
} ()3°Tadstaun ut’ SOP/SOTACATT, OPNTOUTH 
‘ ut’ TTeENQUT/JJF,, SPNTOUTH 
? ((aRdeq<-wq >> T) ‘deysojoo ‘diy) pgoupeoy] gee zt yeas eaevencuansteseeseeenewennerssvecentnevanrercs siseseceee¥e/ 
‘ () ZOL3TeM ¥ 

‘ ()3FTaIFEM /s *seqnducs ebTuy-S10poumoD EY} 410} UCTSIGA STUL y/ 
/_ emQoyd eqn MoUs y/ £ (09) MOTAPEOT /s v/ 
$ (a9) don bay /s ‘upeuop OTTGnd ey j UT ST e1eMqjOS STUL »/ 
$ (day’ ay) qa0gneren /s ‘sqly OTUOAQSeTY ‘Meus eveqS pue uosTsu0W Auer Ag ,/ 
Jojuyser = oyursey’ da /s +/ 
{ /s *(jextd sed s1ojoo z¢) / 
OWI =| sepow’da /s SeUeTAAT( ¢ ‘UOTINTOSS1-AOT SF Q[NeJep eyy ,/ 
-DONI =| sepoy’a /s *seueTCRTq jo sequmu eq} st ,soueTdu, wy 
} (00z < aabteHa’da) ZT /s "008X079 ST ,TU, / 
‘STWIH = sepow’da este / ‘00ZX0"9 ST , pou, / 
$9 = sepoy’da (oze => GapTMd'’dA) ZT /s "00ZX0ZE ST ,AOCT, s/ 
/s ‘s}euLioy usetos ehjuy UCUMIOS seul eqy squoddng ,/ 
/_°W20I08 JO s8U.100 Qe, seddn ut aT Aetdstp sfeaty ¢/ /s , seuetdu +/ 
/s (Tq’peul’moT) wy YSep EOmMos PATIZMeY, ‘ITD wosy ebesy ,/ 
/+ whrey Ketdstq »/ Sgnoy<-uq = WWOTeHI' dA -/s v/ 
/+ BidIMm Aetdstp reotsdug »/ /gynoysegsezAg<-uq = WIPTMd’ da /s ge-uer-€Ze/ 
/s -OLT WII ue se qno 47 eqtsa pue ‘37 Aetdstq ;/ 
70 = 3eszZOAY’ OjUTSe4 /» (ueesos & ut seueTdytq eq] Jo dimp) deujTq ,Me4, @ UT peoy ,/ 
20 = WSJJOKY’ OJUTSeL SESEFELSRTEEFEFFESTESREEEFESTFEFTSFTFESESETTESEFTESEFER TES VEE YS O°UQTTZAel xz/ 


v eGeg O°WIITZNeA OB6T ZZ:0T € Ady T ebeg ovwqrTzmet Q86T EZ:0T € Ady 


B - 100 


{ 
‘ (0) 37xe 
$ (esequooy) Arerqy TesolD 
$ (esegxgo) Areaqy TesotD 
:qnoTTeq 


‘ (deun toy) deyntaece.sg 
‘ () 30Tadstaun 


{ 

‘([z]a6xe’,u\ ,8%, SITz uedo 3, upTnoD Oa ee 
‘ (azIsand ’ 203 3Nq) wayse.ty 
‘ (ELTF) eSOTD 

*(azIsand ’2033nq “TINN :deuo edeuppey 

‘qubjeud ‘uaptad ‘demtop ‘ettz) 2°TAIN 
‘ (orvand aNGN| dIHD aNaW ‘’azISana) weyPoTTw(y ALAGN) = szezzNq 
‘(a1TaMaN SGON ‘[z] Afze)uedp = eTTZ 
‘ (@TTZ) SSOTD 
‘(qqdeq°deuntq>>t ‘dew ‘day)yaoupeoy (deuppeq) 3T 
‘(dew ‘deuntop’ettz) deyatgpeoT = deuppey 
‘ (TInn’ deun toy) of ake tdstq 

} (©ttz) 3T 


‘(a71aqg10 BG0N ’[T] A6.ze) edo = ETT 


y obed OUITZAeA OBET ZZ:0T E Ady 


‘ (deun tory) dew Taoolty 
‘(qu6seqd ‘aaptad ‘qqadep ‘deuntqy) de;atastul 
[00z :00m 2(T< wy) = qwhteud 
foze 7089 23g = qaprad 
‘ ((qadep’ [303] qadeqxewl) NIN _’T)XWW = Wadep 
:,0,-[p] abuse, = Wadep ae aT 
‘yeouq /Z = Wy 3,4, eseo 
‘yeouq ?‘T = qy :,W, eseo 
‘yeerq °9 = Wy :,T, eseo 
} ([e] aA6sre,) ~QTAS 
(e<o6.1e) ZT 
i¢ = y;dep 
70 = Ww 
{ : 
sqnortTeq 03706 
:(,u\,seuetdu (Ty’peu’soT) 33 4sep eos WATIZAEY, ‘ITD wos ebesn, 
) z3quTad 
} (€ > o64e) JT 
} (o6ze) ZT 
‘ ( AxeaqyT *ucot ON,,) eAgpoon 
( ((o’,,Ateaqrt:uocoT,,) Arerqy quedo = esequool) i )3JT 
:(,AresqyTsopydes6 on,,) eAgpoos 
( ((0’,,Are2aTT soTudes6,,) Arerqy'quedo(, esegxjg 2on13s) = esegx3D)i )3T 
J@LTZ ONOT 


{4033NQy ALAN 
Squpteqd ‘uaptad’yjdep’j03 LYOHS 
} ‘abaey, seqo ‘obse Quy (A6se ‘ob.1e) ute pTOA 
[{y’y’s} = [e]aqadeqxew TaOHS OFIe38 
0009T aZISANA SUTJOPH 
74% = (]ao3taszep aLxan 


J eeeeveeEsEEEEEERETESUETEEEESESUESEEFESESESETSRSESESTETETEETETESEGS () uyeu ve/ 


{ 
‘ (astwa cee ate 

: ( o (qadeq<-wo>>T) == qu) (700g) )um jes 

/» Gea z0TOo peor y/ ‘(Zs (u3dea<-wq>>T) ‘STOO ‘eTTz)peey = qu 
} (S100) ZT 


{ 
‘ (t’‘ezystd’ [ty] soueta<-wq) zeeTO31Tg (ezTstd>qu) ZT 
‘(eztstd ’[y]seueta<-wq ‘eTTz)peey = qu 
} (++F ‘aqdeq<-wo>t %0=7F) 4A0z 
SSMOY<-UK,MOYysegse7Ag<-wq = ezTsTd 
‘@ztstd’qu ONOT 
‘Tt LYOHS 


¢ ebeg o-wqrtzMes 986T ZZ:0T © Ady 


B - 101 


sTpuSH 

/-°@ttz oq Buyuuecs deo pue waod sTaa dps asne ,/ ‘ (AWIO aa) unqes eared 
‘ (dzz7) unger 
£ (Axe QUOZWL1039) dnowNYeSOTD 


/= ©TtZ ©@ Huyuuecs enuTQuoD uem| xf = ‘AWIO dal = GIST 
On ONd == S33T) ZT 
‘(xwio gal =< G3zt) otram { 
¢ (qxeQquogu1039) ApEPIUNTDT IIe) = me a 
‘ () aaaPPe wD 
‘ (axequogmioy9 ‘Que.red) dnoznyuedo = dj3T 
/eSRATI 103 AT eos ATeATS.moe1 pue WEOT WATI-uou e uedo ,/ 
z =< Aoueq JT# 
} (eatrar =1 edigqns<-quested) ZT 
/+ ‘W804 WATI-uoU e eTpuey y/ 


/» eazy Aetdstp -mo uy seuetd zo szoqumu ,/ ‘soueTqu UT 
/~ *Seqkq UT ezTS eUeTd x/ ‘ezTSTd ONOT 


!F qut seqstbes 

/s°SPTSTZ SuerqQUeTTO-uou 103 pesn ATUO ¢/ 
SAxeqQUOgULIOZ AxeQuUODdNO+D 
‘d33¥ daar /,20q4stbes Hngszeytyduoo,/ 


J eEREREESEEEEESESESESESESEEEEE RETESET REESE SEES EEE ESSREETSE FETE EERSTE ESE EES 
g 
‘ebeurf eq} pees pue dewatd eq SFEOOTTe IT,eM ‘MGS AGOd B PUTS OM GOUO 


¥ 

*KGOd ©43 Epocep OF CHM OU SEY YF JT AO AGO OU SPUTT 

Q¥ ZT supeTdMoS AI “xGOd & Speer QF SoU SsdojJSs AT ‘WATI WHOd & SPTSUL » 
"SIERO [Te Sdpys pue WATI SWYOI SPeCU ¢ 

‘CLTJ aaI ue uy pesequnooue Wud, AseAd eT,Uey 02 ENQOTGpeey STA PeTIED 


# 
SRVEFESFFFFFEFFSSLEFSEFESESFSLEFFFEFESFSSTSFEEFESELEFFEFSS FREE EF ()waTIO3e9 vx/ 


ioe QUETIO, »/ ‘TION = Guetgqq76, SwerIWATI TWOOT 
x deuntq S,QUeTTIO »/ !TION = Wad, deyatd 2on-As TWOOT 
SJION = A0QEOOTT YH, A0RESOTTW TWOOT 

/-°Stequyod pepTacid-quetTo 03 sseooe TeQOTO +/ 


0 Aoueqz euTzop} 
/-= ‘owesz ebeuy yore 10J WATI WHOA + 
e GuTupequo> WANW WHOA © ST ETT AOefqo peqeuyue °S°D ceptaexnted e °b'” » 
‘WATI WHO poqyseu e 40x Huypjoo, ‘Queseid JT ‘SWYOI WATI-uoU OUT SOATP JET, ¢ 
wesHoid © STTdoo T1,3eUuL °Z 02 AoueyZ JOS ‘“UOCTSICA sOTOURZ USAD UB 107 x 
3 
¥ 
ye 


‘WATI SWUOI 
gO ISTT @ st seGeuy zo Axesqry quyagexnteg @ °6°q “WATI WHOd ISAT ST 
peor 02 ‘queseid JT ‘ISI © OUT SeATP FeTQ WesdHoid © ST TdMOD TT, IEUL 
*T 03 Aouez 2ES ‘SaOUd pue SISIT serTpuey eq, UOTSIBA sEToOURZ © 407 
¥ 
*sesn S43 JO X06 A0J ETQeA~NS S,IeUL » 
"WATI Wad © 103 IWD © OPTSUT HOOT ‘AOAGMOY ‘TITA AI “SOLTZ 
qnduy eq} UT Sa0ud pue SISIT I1e GIAS I1,31 “seonpoid quyegexnteg QeyA ST » 
TOTGA ‘OTT @ UT WATT Wadd CTbuTs © speer Qeqy wesfoid © STTdu0S IT,IEUL 


v eeg o-Q07dpeer O86T ZZ:0T € Ady 


*9 03 Aouegz Jes ‘wesHoid STG JO UCTSIOA [TeUS © 107 2FION s/ 


/s 

eure rT TI qxequogdno.25 WATIOIISD WOTI WHOA ss 
Xa0d2°9 xa0d ¥ 

ewe. IWITI qxequopdnoe.n WATIOAISD «= ss WRT. WHO ¥ 
Xa08299 Xaod z 

eure LANG TI 3xequojdno.*) WATIOII2 WTI Wud ¥ 
CHa) CHW ¥ 

avn3989 aWhD ¥ 

qxequojdno1 WAIIAGISD «=—s NTI. dOUd % 

eure AIWITI qxequopdno.%) 3ST TIPECU+NATIT MeO ISII ¢ 
qxequopdno.x) FeDIPEcy IW) 

eure WA TI qxequogdnoray «=: AJTPeSY+OMQOTgpeey = - -ET TJ STOUM-- 

¥ 

neu ou (s) 901d BuTpee.s s 

SMOTS( PEUTIQNO ETT ETGUexe ei; US SYA UEOS O2 O.10A OM JI 


¥ 

‘syunqo (peqseu) Hufpee.r 10x QxeQuoo e asnf , 

8,21 “pesequnoous (goud 4O ‘ISIT ‘IW ‘WuOa) dnoswh Areas 103 (dnosgyuedo 
43o garyuedg Aq 3 SZTLeT{TUT pue) qxequopdno1g MoU © OJEOOTTE OM 

‘OTTZ STOYM YQ AOJ GUO TETATUT ue , 

REOOTTE osTe em ‘seTztedoid aww 9 GHW PTOU 02 AF esN pue STTZ SUR UT ¢ 
petequnocue POT JO ISIT Azone 103 3OeAS EY UO ESO JO GUO SREOOTTE OM yx. 
‘OLTZ aaI Ue UT WATI SWHOA Huypees s0J ,eureraz QUOETIO, 4No ST euerWTI »/ 
[penne nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn rrr rrr tern nn nnn nrnne Jepeet WATI ------------ +/ 


ZTS zoynq euTsep# 

/-_°SMO1 WATT OG} SuTTquresosun ut pesn s0ez3znq Axesodmey © JO ezTs eyW SUTZEC »/ 
{: (b’d) weyoo.tz(d)3T} (b’d) weyserzezes euTzep# 

((q): (e)e(@>(e)) (a’e)NIW eUTZepH 

(qadeqxa>>T) Seysojopxeu euTzep# 

S wAdeqdx” euTyep# 

/s ‘WAdequyxey ESN prnoD ‘deujtq e UT seuetTd Jo szequmu xeul s,eTduexe styl, ;/ 
wt’ 2OTdpee1/JZF,, OpNTOUTH 

ut WQTT/JIF, SpnTouT# 

wd’ SusQxXesop/seyse1qyT,, SPNTOUTH 

ut’ SOp/seTserqy yt, SpNTOuT# 

wd’ TIENQUT/JZT, SpNTOUTH 

OF2eIS =" TWO: SUT EPH 


JeeeeERRsEsEUSEVEUEURERESESESEEVEES EE ESESEPEFESESESEEFEST FEST FEES ESE ES EET 
‘yeszred queosep-eaTsunces © ATTeTAUESS® ST UCTIA0d 4opeed JAI SUL x 


8 
*Uddvad aaI NW GOS NWWHOONd AIGNWXa NW SW SIHI dsn + 


¥ 

‘upeMop OfTqnd ey} UT ST OreEMQJOS STUL » 

‘squy Ofuo.QceT” ‘seXeq eae {Ss pue ‘MEYS EAB{S ‘UOST.LIOW Asusz)ep Ag x 

¥ 

“9g-uer-ez ‘OLTZ Sheuy se4Se1 WATI ue peoy , 


# 
SELES ERELTEVEFESTESEFESSSEEEESFST TFET LGSESSESS VETS EEEEEE O° OT GPeCOY vs/ 


T ebeg o-Q0;dpeer O86T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B - 102 


SREVVEVELSKTHESTSTSESESSESESETSFESTS ESTELLE LESSEE SEESELELY SS QRITITROCD ax/ 


en 
$(G33¥ 2 XW aal 2 Maw ana = dy3T) umjex 
! (ax@Quopdo.idy) dnosnyesoty 


/-° (Si012%8 OU) XWIO aI pewmyesz euTQnoiqns 
@ 40 yuNYD perocubT JO GI PTTeA ZT GooT x/ *(xWHO ddI =< a ettua { 
/yeoiq 
‘ (sBeyroTopu<-eurezgqT Ty ‘deyioj[oo<-eurer gq TT? (~ MeOM) sarang 
aWWDIeD = dJ3T 
/» Avew sTq} AOJ woot eAeYy CA x/ ‘begsojooxeul = sheysto[opu<-suresquqtT Ft 
} ‘dW GI eseo 
{ ‘xeeiq 
! (apHg<-eurergaqr Ts ’3xequoQdo.1dy) CHNAIeD = dzIZF 
SanaL = GHNaPUNCJ<-curerqUqTT 
} :qHNd dI eseo 
} ((qxequopgdoidy) spepMMDdjSD = dJZT) YRTAS op 


‘ () aaaPrPeu 
2 (axequogdoidy “que.ted) dnosnyuedg = d33zT 


/= STZ 4A Buyuecs enuTjuoe ysnf y/ ¢ (AWC aaI) UsNjes 
(WII GI =) edAaqns<-quesed) ZF 


‘eurerqqueyt[o<-queved(, euretIWATI) = SUeAWqTT, SWes1IWATI 
!qxequ0pdoud yxeQuopdno.+«. 
!d33% daal /x104STHe1 Bngsettduoo,/ 
} ‘fquesed, yxequopdnosn §=(Juesed) WaTIAGeD dzaI 
Aoueq 3T# 
/eeeRREPEVEGESESTESESEREEETESEPEP EVEL ECEETESSEV EET ESTEE EU EP ER ES ELE ERE EE EF 


% 

‘sseqjO [Te sdpxs pue WATI SdOUd Speoy ¢ 

‘OLTZ ga ue ut peszequnooue Goud Asere eTpuey OF SiN}OTQpeoy ETA PSTTIED ¢ 

¥ 
SREVVELEFTSSVE TESTES TEES TST FE LTS SLE LEFF LF ELE TELE RE FERRET SY ()WATI2GRIED =2/ 
J aeReRERESEEEELESERESEET ESET ERTS EST EELT EEE R ELE P ESSE ELE ESSELTE ESTES SESE ESTE 
3 
‘peou nof dnuee[To seAejeyM Op ESEO x 
MIWA UNA SU ere pue ‘NOC aaI = GJZF OS 2,USEOP JEU OSES SYHD CI ue 
UTM Eseo ZGOCT AI Sqy eoeldei--syuNGS SYHD Jo sequnu Aue UWA IXIA WHOd © » 
*6°e--syunyD eAep JO sequMU eT qeTIeEA & SUTeqUOD QeYQ eEdAR WUOT & peor OF 
¥ 
002 ‘RATIAGISO UF JUSUKEZeAS WORFAS Ct x 
0} sesneTo ppe (°030 ‘SHWD ‘aww) sommyo Aju]edosd jo spuyy Sicul peed OL, 5 
*QUSUIBZeIS WORTMS SY} 03 SesneTO ppe ysnf ‘sxuMYO JO Spuyy S1cul peer OF, 


¥ 
VEEFFELETEFESELFLSE FEES FETE LETS SE LFEFE TEST FTF WATIOI}CD SutTpue Axe uo SEION z/ 


{ 

‘ (d33z7) unjes 

{ (axe qUOmULI039) dno.2=NYyesoTD 

/-» °SiO12e OU eteEM EreNR ‘sez STqQ 3e5 OM JT ,/ 


y obeg o-R0Tdpeer OMT ZZ:0T E Ady 


£(dyz¥)umqes (aNOd aaI =! G33T) 3T 


/-* (St0110 ou) AWIO AII pou-mnjer Guy Nosgns , 
®@ 40 UMD pesoubT Jo GI pTTeA ZT doot s/ ‘(xwiO _aaI =< d33t) oTTum { 
/» wrmyo xGod ON «/ { ‘xeouq ‘waot ava = dst } ee eseo 
/7ee1q 
/~ Geunyzq eq 103 Wva Wnoue jou ,/ SYOuMT INSITIO = G3ZF 
esTe 
{ 
/-'euresZ S,UETTO 03 spreTs Adop ,/ ‘euresaquqTy = curesgzqb, 
/-» exomng »/ ‘Nod aaI = 334 (xwHO aa = O33T) FF 
‘ (zgznq 
* s03 JngApog 
* APH * sure tz TWAT PF 
‘TION 
‘wad 
*4xX@QUODULIOJ 9 
)xa0G3e9 = d33zt 
‘¢,0zTsTd + (o]seueta<-waS (atagNnvid) = [tT] seueta<-wad 
(+47 {soueTquU > T ‘T = J) A0Z 


} 
((eztTstd » seuetqu) (407e00TTYHs) (HLGANWId) 
= See 
¥ 
‘soueTd ese seetg x 
3eq3 Epos eyy BuyHueyo qnoujta sty eHueyo 9,U0q :ONINUWM + 
‘soueTd eyy jo ewosS J0J x 
Kuoucu ubnoue ATuo JF 3N0-xDeq 02 Epoo HuyTRZT4AM spfoae AF ANd ¢ 
*‘Kxesseoeu ATTeet QoN «= *ATSnonbyQuoo soue[Td [Te SAeOOTTW x/ 
‘U° ApHUq’ ouelWWGTT » (a° apyuq’ eurezquqT Tt) soqAgMoYy = eztstd 
2 ({° apHUq:* eure+qUIQT F 
‘A’ ApyUq* cures quqyT Ft 
‘soueT qu 
‘wab 
) dewatartur 
‘(aadeaxg ‘seuet qu’ Ippmq’ euresqUqTT) NIN = seueTqu 
‘(WuOd ava) Umye2 (CHNEPUNCZ ‘eurerqUqTTi) 3T 


} :xao@ dI eseo 
{ ‘jeeuq 


/« (UNTO GHW ON x/ 


/s *Aqor (pextz) ‘deyiojtoo-euesguqT Ty sen y/ 


* (sBoysoToou’ eureszuqr Ts ’ [0] deysotooeurergmqr Ty (» MYOM) ‘3xeWUODULIO;7 


)awwore9 = d33T 
/» Auew sfqy 4103 woot eaey om y/ ‘Hoysolooxeu = sheyi1o[opu’ eurerqWwaTT 
} ‘av AI eseo 
{ ‘jeeiq 
‘ (appMq' eurexgMqT Pp? ’3xe{UODULIOJ 7) CHWAICD = GIT 
/aNaL = CHWAPUNOZ * euresrIWQTT 
} :qHWd_dI eseo 
} ((axequogmi0z9) appNTDyeD = dJzT) YOITAS Op 
‘ () agzaPreu 
£ (axeqQuogm1039 ‘jueted) dnosanquedo = djzT 
‘eurerqQUey[O<-quested(y SUeAIWATI) +» = SUeAZUGTT 


{ 


¢ eeg o°20Tdpeer 986T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B - 103 


2 (d3z) ume. 
$ (ewesgzy (, SuerZWUETIO) ‘STTZ) daIPeed = AJIT 
/s 


‘eoetd Guyzsejs Tnyesn & GAEY TITA 267eT 7 peou OYA SSONR JETR OS ¢ 
‘et direxe WyOg-SUO STuR OUT AQTxeTdwoS QeqQ And 02 YSseq SEM IF PEPTOSp OM » 
“swgod Tenptatput Aq petztoeds sepzsedoid 


9g e6eg o-Q0Tdpeer Q86T ZZ70T © Ady 


‘ISIT @ UT SWHOd TTe 03 Atdde yorua saodd squcddns gar esneceg 
guoTsnjuoo Burfsneo punorze HuypAeoTs ssequTod euresz »y seuesz Aureu , 
os eaey om op Ay ‘eUCp USUA SuIesy S,USTTO EJepdn UES WATIOIICD » 
Qeuy OS ETQeTzeA TeqoTh © uT euresy S,QUeTIO EYQ 03 seqQUTOd © e035 ,/ 
f‘eurerzgy = euesgy6 
‘wq = Wad 
SAORVOOTTS = AOQeOOTTYH 


£9 = sbeyioloju<-eurez aT 

‘aSTwa = QHWapuNo; <-eues7y 
/- °(0 °0) 03 S2eq AF ATUT ‘awe exTT Aquedoid © peer oj Quem nok ZI 
‘eUOTe SieqSTbe1 AOTOO S,SUTIOeU SYA GARST O23 ST A[Nejep ey sueeu , 
geq} ‘deur 10Too eu 409 °30eX sueqstGe1 40T0o ay 410 Ajuzedoad qHng Aue , 
peer 3, UeAeq OM QeTR Spsccer Asnf eTdirexe sty, “Sz[Nezep epta-uet6oid y 

eqy 03 s6utq30s AQ1edoid s,euresy QuUeTIO TeAST-doj EY} EZTTETITUL »/ 

¢ Jeorpeey = 3e0}e5°eure13QUeT 1O<-cue1gT 

{(WATIONNC) = W107 306° eurer;QUeT [O<-eulesgT 

3 TpUuSH 
SdnosngdTys = do1g,e6° eurerqQuey [o<-eure.gy 


idno2ndyyAs = 4ST'T7e6° eure 1; {UeyT [9<-owesgzy 
eSTOt 


{WATIAGNIS) = do1qqe6- eure1qQueyT [O<-euresTT 
‘WATITTROO = 3STIQOH  eureszqQuey [o<-oureszgzy 

Aouez JT# 

{RWNO Jal = GYIT aaa 


SAOYCOOT[ Vy AOQSOOTTY 


/ = POXTZ »/ 
/~ Suerzy mou ‘euresaf SYM ‘00D FOUNOS NI BOUT eves v/ 
SUeLTT, GUCIIWTI 
‘wg, dewatd 3on238 
*STTZ ONOT 
(z0QBD0TTe ‘surergy ‘wq "OTTZ) eanjQoTgpeey dial 
J eeRRSEREVESETEREEEEESEEEESEUEEE EEE FETE ESEETESTT TESST SE (Jem oTgpeey »,/ 
er 
( (curergnouy(, curergquet{D) ’quered) 3sTT]Ipeey )usmje4 
/_» ourerzz Quosed Adoo ,/ ‘eurerzquet[o<-quesed(, euretWgTI) » = eueiqnou 
/~ Sel mou & EREDCTTS ,/ ‘euretqMeU SUTeLIWATI 
} ‘quesed, qxeQuopgdnosn )§=(Quered) WEATITReD d3aI 
; Aouedz JT# 


JeeeeeRESUUEEUUESEETETESEEEESEESTETESESESESESTSTESEFEVETESEPEVEETESES ETE TEE ES 


* 
“OLTZ dal ue uy pesequnooue IST] Axae e[puey 02 OM}OTgPeSy VTA PSTTED » 
€ 


/-=° y@URIAJ YSTIO, Teast doy ,/ 


g ebeg o°Q0Tdpeer QC6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B - 104 


{ 
haa 
2((d(s ONOT)) » becca 
} (TION =1 ¢) 37 
} ‘dy aLxan (d)eorgued, AZLAGN 


z ebeg O°ooTTemer 986T ZZ:0T © Ady 


/RERESEERESESEEEEEEEETESESEEPEEFEPESEVESFE FEE REET EPS T ETE TEE TEESE SY COL FUIY xe / 


{ 
!((oITand aWaW ‘©@ZTS) COTTYweYy) Um{e1 
} {@ZTS ONOT (©ZTS) OOTTWAeCTOONAXAs ALAN 
J eeeeeREPESEEETESESTETESEETEEEEL TEER ESE EES ETT EEE REET SY OOTTWACSTDONAX” ¥s/ 


{ 
! ((o1TanNd aNGNI|UWAIO IWAN ‘@ZTS) COT Tywey) Umye1 
} {@z¥S ONOT (©ZTS)OCOTTWAXds ZLAGN 
/RERERERERESESESETEEEETEEUT ET EEESEEEEPEE EET E EET ERESEEEFES ESSE EY OOTTWAXA ¢3/ 


{ 
! ((aTHD AWAW| OITANd aWaN ‘@ZTS) OOTTYweY) Un{e1 
} {ezTS ONOT (©ZTS)COTTWAeeTDONGTUDs, ALAN 
JeReRERRESEESEREEEEESTSEEF ESET ETE SESE EUE SESE TEE EE SESE OOTTWAPSTOONGTUD s5/ 


{ 
‘ ((aTHD aWaW OT Tend ana UWAID IWAN ‘@ZTS) COT TYWeY) UNQe2 
} {ezTSs ONOT (@ZTS)COTTWATtDs ALAN 
J eeReRUU¥ESUSEEESEEEESTESTFESE PEST TEEEPEEETESEEET TEETER EEF SEES E SOTTWATUD xs/ 


{ 
!(d(, aLxan)) umje.s 
/yeerte SQUBTIO Je QuTod oj d dumq-3sod ,/ ‘eztse = ++d, 
(TIAN =1"d) ZT 
£ (sbetz ‘ozyse) wHOOTTW(s SNOT) = d 
(0 < ©zTs) ZT 
![7+OZTS = OZTS® ONOT 4eqsTbe. 
/» moTeq ‘++d zo eyes ey 403 (¥ ONOT) +/ =‘ TINN = Gy ONOT 409STbe4 
} ‘sbeTZ ‘ezts ONOT (s5eTz ’ezts) OOTTWwedy ALAGN 
J aeeeeRREURUEEESESESESEPEPEETEETEET FEF ERTS EEE ETERS FEST SEL E EEE SOT TWRey ee/ 


wl’ COT TeWS1/JZT,, EPNTOUT# 
yw’ Arowsu/oexe,, epnTout# 
wd’ Sepou/cexe,, epn[ouT# 


zTpus# 

ad’ JOT TGMOS/ZIT, SpnTOUT# 

H UTIIGWOO sepuz t# 

/eueeeeseSURUENOUEUEVESDESESUSTSOUDEUSUSVSVESESTESEVEVEUER ORES EEEEEEEEEEreNEEs/ 


| * 
Is *zeqnduoe ehjuly-e10poumIOD EU ACJ UOTSIJOA STU] 7 
/* <7: 
7. ‘ufewop OTTqnd ey UT ST ereMQzOS STUL ,/ 
Ie “squy OTUO1QDeTA ‘MeyS EAB IS pue uosT.ucW Arter Ag ay, 
/s * 

Je DOT TWACOTIONIXA ‘OOTTWACSTOONGTUD peppy SSS 9g-Uer-¢cz 3/ 
/s “SOT T YEU UT 0 < OZTS 10J yey ‘Y*seTTduOD epntoul wf 9og-uer-cz / 
Vi O° OOTTWO/JUTedd WoAy PeIFes SSS 9g-UEL-9T ¢/ 
[ pom nn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn nse nne Soe seween nes e/ 
7s sebueq) uM e eq 
/s . 

7 -Guyeery JeTGUITS Joy ‘peqZeoOTTe EZTS ET JEqUEWAY UOTUA S40REDOTIV v/ 
/s *()eorguey ’()ooTTwwed ‘()OoTIWaxa ‘()ooTTWdTtwD +/ 


/eeeeRERESEEUETESEEETTSEEETEEETEFFFEEET ES EE FETS FS EEET ESTEE EEE O°OOTTWURY xs/ 


T eheg o°ooTTemer OG6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


3-105 


/= xOOTeHKeEW pue TAPTMXeW »/ 0 ’0 

/~e 2UWOTCHUTW PU TAPTMUTW +/ 0 ‘0 

/» Je qutod deyatqsedns ,/ TION 

/» Stay 19d Use10g yng ,/ “TION 

/-+ Supszys STIATL v/ **TINN 

/~= Szequtod ebeuy pue jebpeg »/ “TIAN “TINN 

/~ sbeta »/ ssaTaaauod | 

aoumpva | 

ALIWALIOW 

/~ SHeTaT AOAI x/ *SNOLINGASNOW 

/» VEPPCTA pue uSsgTTejeq ;/ t- ‘TH 

/+ xaHteH pue UWIPTM s/ ‘0 ‘0 

/~ S&pgdoy, pue efpzqjeT »/ “0 ’0 
} = au AOPUTMM®N =. ONS 

‘{ 

/~e Gewuytqmoyjsny 03 44d s/ “TIAN 

/s qoX sqeipeb on ,/ *TINN 

/s SLITL +/ *'TINN 

/s quozj Aw esp ;/ “Quo IQXxeLy 

Js edx], uecei0g ,/ ‘NIMIOSWOLSND 

/~ sepou Aetdstp tejoeds ,/ **TINN 

/» U2PPCTA pue usegTTewed »/ ‘T- ‘T- 

/s yjdeq »/ ‘0 

/s qubyey pue UIPTM »/ ‘0 ’0 

/~=  6pgadoy pue eSprzqey »/ ‘Oo ‘0 
} = su UBGIOSMON 9=- ONS 

{ 

/_ SeouUBIOJCI™ »/ *INOINOW add 

/s eTAas +/ “TWWION Sd 

/+ Oye Quoz ,/ ‘RIHDID ZYdOL 

/= euren QUOZ y/ wqUoz * zedo2,, 


} = quozzxe] Aq3V}RL, «| ONS 


/_¢ AOPUTM MOU ‘UBeIOg MEU 40Z sSeunjoN4S »/ 


Sseqkgd ’epoo ‘’sseTo ONOTN 
seuog ‘eThbo3gI, 100d 

7o aLAd 

{10118 ‘FT QUT 

J+ BSTeQOTH 2670 »/ 


SHOOJMOU, ‘HOOTIACYS, AOOTSTTY QONARS 
samuoay = 100d 

SbspouegM, Gn34eISgM WON4AAZS U1e7xXe 
/~ Gnzzeys YOuSI.0M 407 »/ 


‘dewata2  dewitd ons 


STqHodAy QAOgMeETA QON1QS 

‘Tquodu, quogjsey 3jon135 

*TAOPUTM,  AOPUTM QONAAS 

!TUeeI0S, UBe1DS QONI4Ss 

/~ eheuat ue SuyAetdstp 103 sleqoto ¢/ 


/e sotd {Tews 103 Qon.4s deyatg duel -/ 


gy e6eg o-wmqiyeos 986T ZZ70T Ee Ady 


‘ebessou, ebessopynqul Aonsz4s 
S@SeQUOTATNQUIT, SSeQUOCTATNAUT Jons4sS 
sOsegxsOy esegxj) 3onszAsS 

/~ saequtod eBesn [Tessueb ,/ 


ZTS ZSjnq euTzepH 
/~°SMOL WETI OG} Suttquresosun ut pesn sezznq dueq e Jo EZzTS ey eUTJEd »/ 


{‘ (b’d) wayserg(d)3T} (b’d) waysoszezes ouTzept 


((q): (e)2(q)>(e)) (a’e) NIN CUTIEPH 

(yadeqxd>>T) SeyszoTooxeul euTjep# 

S YIGedXy SuTzepit 

/~ ‘Tdeqnyxey esn prnop ‘deutq e uy seuetd Jo szequmu xeul S,oTduexe stu s/ 


ut WITT/JIT, SPNTOUTH 


<Y‘ OF PAS/SOTAALT> SpNTOUTH 

<Y UOT ATNAUT/UOFAFN{AUT> Spn[OUTH 
<q’ dnz1e3s/ToOUueqAOM> EPNTOUTH 
<ymeta/sopydesB> epnTout#t 
<y°xj6/sotydes6> epn[out#t 

<u’ quodyse1/sofydesb> epn[out# 
<q’ eseqxj5/sotydesD> epn[ouT# 
<Y° SOp/SeTAeAq; [> SpNTOUT# 

<u’ Arcurul/oexe> Epn[ouT#t 

<4’ SedkQ/oexe> epn[ouT# 


J eeRRERUESEESESESEUEEUEUESESESTEEECTESEEEESEET EV ERT ETE TERE EEES EVER ER ES EY 


¥ 

QqtT’ebyuy ‘QtT'OI XAUWUGIT + 

WATISSS OL » 

o-sexqoedim ‘O° ugIT ‘O°szZ ‘o-WATIECS ‘fqo’dnqzzeIST WOU + 


* 
SUOTQEULIOJUL GHENUTT x 


* 
*szegndmcs eftuy e1opoumioD ey 03 OTZTOedS st uoTjuod AeTdstTp our 

¥ 

"ROTI WYOI peyseu e scx edAQ WYOT ASY}OUe EPTSUT HOOT 3, UOM y 

QT 3Nq ‘“WATI WHOT © PUTZ 02 ISIT 40 IWD & OUT HOOT TTA weshoad sTuL, » 
‘sessed queosep-eATsimoe.1 © ATTeTAUeSSO ST UOCTI40d Aepeet FAI SUL » 


| “MOTe( UOTIEULIOJUT ebexUTT Seg 
*SOTTZ URL TIT TEUCTITPPE WATA pexUTT eq ys eTduexe STU] *>>ZLON<< 


ze«aae 


‘uTeuop OTTGnd eyy UT ST EreMQZOS STUL ¢ 
"squy OTUO.QCeTA ‘seXey eASAS pue ‘MEYg eAeIS ‘UOST140O Alter Ag ¢ 
S6/ZT/TT O*WaTIMCYS ATAee uO peseg ¢ 


98/st/eo Wad euddeyos uATo“eD Ag 
‘BuT6besp soy req ueet0s seTh60q eere seq STIT AOTeq BuppPTID 


*MOPUTM JO 10U100 AjeT seddn uf AeHpeb eso[>S peqe[mys 
*pesO[O [TUN MopuTa/usetos e se AeTdsTp pue STTJ WATI ue peoy » 


*eanaana 


¥ 
CRRUUVUESESUUESESEUUVESESESUSESESEUSSEESUEEETEEEEEEEEEEEEEsENEsES/ 


[ eheg o-wqrTyees 986T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B - 106 


£(,u\ofa Uo 2FTIOSTQnog pue LaTHsSu\WATIees UO FONO 2TFTOU\,,) JFxeueeTO 
/~ SMEUSTTJ Ou Anq gm wo1g ,/ esTe 

. /(,u\,eureueltz WATISCS, :e6esp,,) 3FxeueeTo 
/~ @meuettz Ou 4nq [FD worgz ;/ (t=061e) JF EsTe 


{ 

! Qpoymeu) spqQue.ND(, xYOoTETTA 2On23s) = y»ooTUeWs 

‘yooy en<-B.re(, YOOTETTA 2On43s) = yoo']Mou 

seureyen<-H1e(, sey) = oueueltj 

£¢+Bsre 

'Asy}]6ayus<-Bsyyouegm = S.1e 

/~ QucegyHAOM STA eureusTTJ pesseg ,/ } 
((t < s6ayumy us<-Ssyouegm) 397 (0==>6.1e)) ZT o- 

‘(t) aise = aa 
/~« UTT puemmo> eTA eureueTTs pesseg ;/ (t<o6.1e) 3 


SasTwa : anat 2 (o=06 se) = gmmosz 
SeUIeUST TS » areyo 


‘bre,  Sayam onsa3s 

SATIZ ON = GIT dial 
/OLTS st 

AHIeyy TeYO 

‘obre AUT 


(Abe ’of.xe) upeu 
Jeveeeuesnveseevesssusesseseessesseeesssveesseessevessssvsseesses (UTC ¢¢/ 


sourelqqry  cureijWea TI 
‘euetgy cueing Tl 


/+  eweszy demtq teqoT6 ,/ 
/-~ SWesZ YUSETTO TEAST doQ ,/ 


/~ _ ()RaTIORe5 wWosz peacm - TeqoT6 epeu cwerzqUqTT »/ 
/+ (Jem jotgpeey wouy poacw - TeqoT6 epem euertzy ,/ 
/» a@euddeyos °D Aq PeTJTPOW +/ 


Tt Aouez eutsopH 
/+ °T 03 Aouez 08 ‘SaOud pue SISIT seTpueq yeyR UoTs.10A AdUeZ B 4OJ 


* 
*SOSN YSOU UOJ OTQeRNS 8$,AeuL “WATI SWUOA 4A0J SIWD UT AOCOT TITKA AI “OTT + 
qnduy eq3 UT sdoud pue SISIT ITe sdtys yeyA wesboid © eTTduoo [T,IEUL s 

°9 03 Aoueg Qes ‘uresboid styA jo UucTS.eA ETdUTS @ 407 AION +/ 


‘emery II { 
/~ “WEIR G10RS OF P10oe1 STZ OF SPIOTI » 
PPe ‘SYD 40 giz) °6°e ‘mpm Aquedoad szeqjo Aue pees 03 Quen noA 3 y/ 
$ [Beysopopxeul] deyioptoo Z410TOD 
‘apHuq sepeopdep td 
‘sHheysojToou gaLXGNn 
‘quwapunoy ALXGN 
SSUeLIAUST[O SurezrTWQUST ID 


} 3ona3s zepedAQ 


y ebeg o-mqItees 986T ZzZ7:0T Ee Ady 


!{,°Wwa WUeTOTZZNSUuT 40 6nq waTIMcus (sows LNAI) 


3 

euret Wa TI qxequopdno.+) WATIOIICD WOTI WHOT ss 
Xqa0g399 Xa0d s 

eure. WaT qxe uU0Ddno.24 WATIOINSD WAII WaOd 2 
Xaog399 xa0g : 

eure twa TI qxequopjdno.27) RATIOMeD = WEA'TI WHO * 
GHWdIS) GHW s 

dWWDIeD dWWO s 

xe UOgdno.2+) WATIAReD =—« WTI. -dOUd ¥ 

eure tga TI qxequogdno.+) AST TIPCOU+NATITTISCN ISIT x 
qxequopdno.n JEDI Peoy IW +s 

eure. IW TI qxequopjdno») «= FAT PeOY+OunjQOFQpeey --O[TJ STOUM-- , 

¥ 

AauU sBU (s) 901d SutTpees s 


SMOTOQ PSUTTANO S[TZ STdilexe GiTQUe SYA UBOS 02 O10K OA JI y 


¥ 
“symp (peqseu) Butpees 103 Jxequoo & ysnf 
S,AI ‘veszerunooue (goYd AO ‘ISIT ‘IWS ‘WYOa) dno16 Axzese 403 (dnorz>yuedo 
40 Jarguedg Aq QT ezzreTAyU;Z jue) QxrequopdnorD MEU & SREOOTTES OM 
‘OTTF STOYA EA 40J GUO TETITUT UE y 
eFeOOTTe osTe eM ‘set zsedoad qyWD ¥ GHW PTOU 03 QF ESN pue ETT SU UT 
peiezuNooue WOT 40 ISIT A1teAe 40J HORS SY} UO ESEYA JO GUO SREOOTTE OM x 
‘CLT aaI Ue UT WATI SWOT Suypees 403 ,eurexz Quet[O, smo Ss} eweigaTl »/ 
[| gran nnn nnn nnn nnn nnn rrr rn rrr nnn nn nnn Jepeet WATI ------------ +/ 


:{ 

pegisw /yaaT Avas/ 
‘quoyshsy = /*INNHD LYOHSs/ 
‘uioz6syH /sWNOT Avds/ 
‘LOLAGQUSTIOOSW /sHOMUT INAITOs/ 
‘CLTAONOSW  /s TTI ONs/ 
‘20N5SH / dal IONs/ 


‘euogisyw /s3NOU daI+/ 

‘yceWpug6syW = / sa CNAs / 

 ‘Kenoisw =/sXWIO aaIs/ 
} = (1t+kowNd Isv1-] sebessopgzary zeyo 
/» \VagadsO IHOIY NI UWaddW ISNW JSAHL »/ 


‘{ ,°Stz gar pet6uea w (gat ava) ..} = 
‘{ ,°WATI WuOd peuiozteu yw (INNHD LYOHS).} = 
‘{ ,WATI WiOa peuiozteu yw (WOT dvd) u} 


u 

‘{ ,°punoz eTTZ wyons ON (FTIIF ON) y 

‘{ °F aaI ue Aon (aaT ION) w 

‘{ ,°4o12ze ue peumjes sod euL (Yowdd Sod) » 
‘{,°Suop Ttw (ANOd 4JI) y 

‘{ ,ee6essem sty 306 nod pip soy (oravW CN) » 
‘{ ,°@LTZ ©43 UT WATI WkOd ON (AWO 4JdI),} 

/~ °“Sepoo qaaI 103 sSuytaqs ebessoy ,/ 


} 
} 
} 
} 
} 
} 


Z 
: 


S(ze]aojtopSgtte  TaoHusN 


‘{ 


/» moputa zo edé], y/ ‘NIMDSWOLSND 


€ ebeg o-wqizees 986T z2z:0T € Ady 


B - 107 


SqaptTmebed: apyuq<-curerguqty3d = ptTMp 
Sq° ApHMg<-eurerquQqTtjyd = AuoTeHS 
‘a* ApHuq<-curerzuqTT Id = UIPTMS 


ideynta sep, deyatd ons 
Sqqhteyp ‘UApTMP ‘3UuHTeHS ‘UAPTMS JLUOHS 
‘eztstd ‘seue[tqu ‘TF aa 
‘eurerquqTtqd, surest IWATI 
(cure.130qTT 3d) deyatgjeb,y dey;ntg on-4s 
JRRREREEEESUESESESESESEEEVESTPEETT EET E RETEST EET TELEETEL TEESE REET EVE ETE EY 
¥ 
JO1I9 = 90 40 deyntajsep saad sumjey sy 
*deuntq duieq 10 use10s uedoO , 


¥ 
PEFESEFELFSEFFVFSTESFSSEFESFESFESVESTRFFERLESSEFFS SIFTS ()dewatazeS »,/ 


{ 

! Qpoysze3s) aTqQQUeLMD = (}poTZ-1eRS =j OoTMeu) ZT 

‘ (esegxzo) Atesqy'Tesot) (esegxz5) ZT 

‘ (esequoyaynquy) Arerq¢'yeso[TD (esequoyytnquI) JF 

‘ (Tuee.10s) userogesoTD (Tuees10s) JT 

‘ (TMOpuyA) MOpuTMeSOTD (TAOpUTA) ZF 

/+ ()otaXketdsta uy pezecoTteep e1em seuetd deywata3 s 
() dnueeto 


{ 
a 

2(,u\, =1 (()eqoqe6=0)) eTTua 

‘(,U\MOGNIM SIHL 2SOT OL NaNLay sal 
/, sebessom peet ued tesn os 3TeM e/ = (amm043) ZT 


¢ (aQs110’ ,u\ SZ wa) 33070 
$24S110, eyo 
(2381.12) yTxeueeTO 


{ 
{ 


{ 
/(,u\e6esseu gpOdI uacwup,,) JquTad 
:3TNejep 
— 
‘ (aSTwa’ Tuee.208) ETAT LACUS 
‘aSTw4a = eTb603g1, 


} 
( (anut==016603g1) 99 (oT <xeSnOW<-TAOpUTA) 
99 (NMOG@LOATAS == Spoo)) ZT rag 
‘ (anal ’ Tuee.s08) eT{TLA0"S 


9 eGeg O°wqITees OG6T ZZ:0T E Ady 


'qnuL = eT6So0rgz 


} 
( (astTva—=0 1650241) 99 (oT <AeSNOW<-TAOPUTA) 
99 (NMOGLOZTES == ©poo)) ZT rai 
-aNUL = a 
((oT>XeSNOP{<-TMOpUTA) 999 (0T > XESNOW<-TAOpUTA) 
99 (NMOGLOS'TSS == @poo)) ZT 
: SNOLLNGASNOW a 
(sse{>) qoITAS 
‘ (e@essau) HsypAT doy 
fepop<-ebesseu = epood 
'sse[p<-sessou = SSeTO 
} 
( (q4ogzesn<-TMoputa) Bsynen(, eSessaytnquy 30n.13s) -ebesseu) gi 
() Bsuppyo 


{ 
‘ () dnueeto 


£(,u\‘punoz Jou eTTZ O.mzOTFd,,) JFXeUeeTO or 
! ([d3z7-] sobessopgzgI) FXeueel[o esto 
{ { 
: () Ssuppqo Se eee rcerneeneyre a 


/s Betz @SOTD »/ ‘aSTwi = euog 
/»+ e16603 req STITL »/ ‘gSTwa = eT6603gL 


‘(,u\Aopuza 410 usetos uedo 3, uUeD,) }TxXeUeeTO (10.1.28) JT 
: (suresguqt Ty) oTaAeTdstq = ae 

(ANOd~daI == d33t) 3T 

? (@TTZ) eSOTD 

‘ (@TTz) emyoTgpecy = djZT 


/+ 3 pees 03 cu uosized eATh 02 spuoces € Qnoge ATeA x/ ‘?(ost)Aeted 
:(,U\aWE OWad PHOOOL OL WAMOT WI'D,) s3uUT Ad 
‘(,U\AWIdSIG GNA OL LagI dol Old er 

((Z1I3010 SGON ‘SweusTTZ) Uedp = STZ) ZT 


‘(,u\ArtesqtT soTydes6 uedo 3, Ued,,) JTXeuveTS 
(((0o’,,AtesqrtuoTzNAUT,,) Aresqy quedo (, esequoy{TNqUI 39n435) 
‘ pO@BEQUOTITNQUI) §) ITF 


(,u\Areaq?t sopades6 uedo 3,uUe),) yyxeu"eTS 
(((o’ ,Aresart’ soTade.6,) AreqT quedo (, esegxXJQ 3ON41{S) = OsVGXZO) i) 3T 


¢ eheg o°wqITees OR6T CZ:OT E€ udy 


B - 108 


Aouez JT# 
JeeevEsEVESESESTERESESEESTRETESTEEETEESETEPETEPEFESEETSEFESTEETS SELES ESS 


+ 
“OLTZ gal Ue UT perzequmooue ISI] Asene eTpuey 02 GNQoT Qpecy VTA PETITE + 


SVESFFFVEFFEFESFFSFFSFSFEFTTFFSSFETFFFEFFFFEFFTTETFFRFLES FB ()RaTITTRCO ss/ 


{ 
‘ (0) umes 


! (sbeyso0Togu<-eurerzuqIT 3d ‘dey1ojtoo<-euesgmqT tad ’T310dA) panupeoT 
SQuogMeTA<-TUse10sy7 = T.10dA 


{ 
‘(qadeq’deyntaa » sMou'dewatay » AoytegsezAg’ deynta 
* [9] souetd’ deyn tay) woyee.tg 
/+ Geyata dueq eq eZeSoTTeep Aou ae, / 
f { 
$++ddQ, = ss 
(++03Aq ‘seqkqu > e7Aq ‘9 = 03Aq) 03 
’ (noysegsezig<-dqs pa + [tJ] seuetg<-dgs = dds 
‘ (moysegsezAg<-day » Mot) + [Tt] seueta<-d = si 
(++M01 {SMOTU > MOL 10 = MOA) 4OJ 
‘ (y] soueta<-dqs (, aLAAN} = dds 
‘ [t] soueta<-da3 (s = ise 
(++ ‘yqdeq<-dgs > F ‘0 = 1) A0J 


‘ (noysegseqig<-dqs ‘moytegqse7Ag<-dq) NIN = se3Aqu 
‘(smoy<-dqs ‘smoy<-dqj)NIN = sAMosuU 
Sdeyatd’ 2410g9Sey<-Tuee.08 = dqs 
:deyatayy = ae 
/~ °00U ZF deyRtg? woaz sezsue.Q ,/ (Lo] seueta’dewataa) JT 


/+ 829d euetd ueestos pue dieq ,/ ‘dds, ‘ddQ, dZLXaN 
/~ 323d dewjtq uee.os pue dueq ,/ ‘dqsy ‘daa, dewatg 3on44s 
‘seqiqu ‘saosuu ‘eqhq ‘Mot ‘ET = QUT 

} 

seureaquq Tt 4d, euwerzWwaTI 


(sure13uqT 3d) oT gAkeTdstq 
/eeeveEEGEERUESEESEEETESEEETETTUEEUETEEETEETEESESERETTFETUU EEL TEES EEE ESET 


¥ 
‘ueetOS 02 seysuen 3s1Tz ‘dewata? JI ‘deuntq pepeot Aetdstq » 


¥ 
SEVEFFVVFFFEEVFEFFFFFFFEFEETESFFEFFFFEIFTEFFEFTFEFF EEF FS () otaketdsta es/ 


{ 
‘ (dewatazsep) umnje.x 


/+ pezecotte dewntaisep ;/ ‘ 


@ ebeg o-uqr tees 9861 ZZ:0T € Ady 


{ 

/~+ GeyAtd due eqecoTTe 9,ueo ,/ ae 
ri 

‘depntaays = dewita3sep 


‘tzeztstd + [0] souetd’ dewata? (aLdaNwid) = (t]seuetq‘ dewnta? 


(++  ‘soueTqu > FT ‘T = F) = 
((aqIED aWEW ‘OZTSTd , soueTgu) De,POT Ty (ULdANWTd) 
= [o]seueta’deyatay) JF 
Sq" IpHMq<-eure rug TTA y (A° wpEMq<-Curet3UqT TIC) SeTAGMOY = ezTSTd 


: (2Q6teRs 
‘UIPTMS 
*‘soueT qu 
‘deyntayy pees 
Cc" 
‘depata’ qtoggsey<-Tuse.os(, dewat jonqs) = dewataasep 
((ag6teyp == auSteys) 7 (WIPTMP == UIPTMS)) JT 


‘(aSIvd ‘Tueest0s) eT{TLAcUS 


*(o)umye. = (‘TINN==((mtr9) MoputMuedo(, AopuTM 3ON1Qs) = TAoputA)) ZT 


{TUS@IOS = UBBIOS’ AU 
/qu6jTeHP = QUuObTeH’ AU 
SU2PTMP = UQPTM’AU 


‘ (sbeysoTopu<-euresgzugqT tad ‘[o]s0TopSattey ‘T310dh) panupeoT 
SQUOgMETA<-TUsetOS9 = T240dA 


S(9)umgje2 (TInN==((su9) ueesroguedo(, usee10g jon198s) = Tueetos)) ZT 


‘TOW =| sepoyMeTA’ su 
(ooz < 3Q6tTeqebed: sppmq<-eurerquqTT3d) ZT 


‘SHUIH = SepoyMeTA’ SU 
esto 

0 = SOPOWMETA’ SU 
(oze => waptmsbed: appmq<-cureszaqT tad) ZF 
‘soueTqu = wdQdeq’su 


/Qufyeyp = qubTeYH'’ su 
“WAPTMP = IPTM’ SU 


{ 
! [0] dewuoloo<-owesguqttjad = [tT] eee 
(++} ‘sHeysolopu<-euerzUqTT3ad > T £9 = J) 403 


‘(uadeqxg ‘seueTqu’ spHug<-suretzUQTTIG)NIW =  seueTqu 
/qubyeyebed: apymq<-suerzuqT Tad = u6TeyYp 


L seg o-wqttees 9g6T 7Z:0T € Adv 


B - 109 


/+° (sa0c110 Ou) XWIO AAI pounjer euTQnouqns , 
@ 20 yuMYD peroubT Jo GI PTTeA ZT Goot »/ ‘{(xwiO aaI =< GJ3ZT) OTTUA { 


{ ‘ee1q 
‘waod avd = G3zt 
} :wawCaNngd eseo 


{ sfeouq 
/~ Geanyq eq, 103 wa WOnoue jou y/ ‘wow INSID = GIT 
esTO 
{ 
/~ wyomg yf ‘Nod aar = G33zt (xwiO gal == G3ZT) ZT 
‘ (zggnq 
‘JOZING 
‘ APH’ Sure AFT TP 
“TION 
‘deyata sep 
*QXOQUODULIOZ? ) XG0GIED = a 


( (curexzmqt Ts) dey tae (, dewatg qon-4s) =deyn ta sep) JT 


/~e $7UN GHWT ON x/ =? (UOT ava) U-mjex (GuNpUNCZ ‘euerzqTTI) JT 
} :xdO@ GI eseo 


{ ‘s.feeaq 
. ‘ (sheqs0Topu’ eurexzUqT TS 
*dewitopoo: eurerquqit (» CYOM) ’3xXeQUODULIOZ9) qYNIED = DIT 
/_ Avew STQ A0J Woo. eve CM v/ ‘Beysotooxeu = sheysoloou’ suresquqT Tt 
} saw dI eseo 
{ ‘s.feeaq 
$ (appmq’eureszUgT TP? °3xeQUCDULIOJ»9) CHNAICD = GIT 
SNL = CHNAPUNOZ * cure. AUqTT 
} :qHNd aI eseo 
} ((axeQuogu103°9) apEPEMYDNeD = dJZT) YITAs op 
: () daaPrew 
2 (3xeqQuogm039 ‘Que.rted) dnosnquedg = dst 
‘euretqQUuey [O<-queted(, euesIWA TI) » = SUerAUQTT 


/= ©lfZ eqy Huyueos enutqu0e asnf y/ = * (xWIOaaI) UNQeu 
(REIT GI =} edAyqns<-qQuezed) ZT 
‘deyataasep, dewntd jonas 
‘ [zgznq] zezjnq ALxd 
SQxeQUOgILIOZ AxXeQUODdNO.+) 
‘C33 dja 


JeeeeEsEEEEEEERERETETESETESESETETESESESEETETESESTEFESELETESESETETE TET ETES 


¥ 
()otaXketdstq Treo ues utem os TeqoTb : 
37 Suypyeu uyem evoge pencu eueszuqTy :ssuddeyos °D Aq POTJTPOWN + 


: § 
-eHeuy eq} peer pue dew{tg ©q} SAESCOTTS [T,em ‘xu XGO_ & PUTJ GM GOUO 
¥ 


OT ebeg o-uTTees OB6T ZZ:0T € Ady 


"XGOd SU Epocep OF CHWA OU Sey YF JF AO AGO OU SpUTZ 
QT JT SUTeTGMOO AI °XGOd & Speet QF SOUO SsdojS AT ‘WAH TI WHOA & SPTSUL » 
*SzeyjO [Te sdyyxs pue WATI SWYOI SPeoy 

‘OLTZ aII ue uF peszoquncous WuOT AzweAS ETpueY OF SNOT QPeSY ETA PELTED 


+ 
ERECEVESETEESFFEFEEEE RTT VEFEFES TELE LEFES EE ETFS ETT FEF ESTE Q)WATIOINSD ¥%/ 


a 
‘(334 * XWHO aaI 2 MUWW ONT = 337) umyo1 
‘ (gxequogdoudy) dnosnyesotD 


/-° (St0118 OU) XVIO AAI peusmnjes uZiqns = 
40 yuMYD peioubT JO GI PTTeA ZT oot y/: (xwNO adI =< G33T) OTTUA { 


{ ‘xee1q 
! (sbeys0[oDu<-eurerZUQT TP 
‘dewsopoo<-eurerquqtt (¥ GYOM) ‘3xequogdoidy ) ayWIeD = dIzT 
/» Aweu sTyy A0Z woos 3/ ‘beysoptooxeuwl = shey1o[opu<-eureaquqt F 
} od eseo 
-7eo1iq 
‘ (apHmiq<-eurergmqr Ty? ‘3xeqUCDdo1dy) CHNAIED = dJIT 
‘GNUL = CHNAPUNC; <-eure1 qT T 
} :qHWd GI eseo 
} ((axequopgdoidy) apepmdjeD = dJJT) YWITAS op 


: () daaPpeup 
‘ (qx@quogdoidy ‘quered) dnosngyuedg = dzz7 


/* STZ ©q3 Buyueos enuzjuoo ysnf y/ ¢ (AvNO agI) unos 
(WaII-GI =5 edAyqns<-juerzed) ZT 


‘eure tqquey [o<-queszed(, euwetgwgiI) = suermiq{y, SuetWETI 
Saxequojdoud yxeQuojdno1sy 
‘G3J¥ daaI /y209sTHe1 Hngse[ tduoo,/ 
} ?‘queued, yxeQuopdn0.+4) 
(quesed) WaTIAGICD daaI 
Aoueq JT# 
PURSES EESEEDEUETEETEEESTEFELEFETE SE EEF EEETE RETF EEE ESE RETEST EE EET TEEN EE EY 


¥ 
*s10930 TIe sdps pue WATI SdOUd Speey » 
‘OLTZ adI ue UT pesequnoous goud Auer eTpuey 032 SANQOTGpeey ETA PSTTED 


¥ 
PVETECEKFETESFESVEEFEFFETFEFESFVELE SEVER TF FFE FES TELE LER TET F QWATIAGICD »3/ 
nn 

$( (earesgnous (, GUETAWUSTID) ‘quesrted) 3sTIIpeey ) ume. 

/» emesz quesed doo ,/ ‘eurerqquet{o<-quesed(, ewetIWaTI) » = euesznou 

/» Smelz MOU B SPEOOTTE y/ ‘euretjnou eulerqwgTI 


} ?quesed, yxrequopdno.2+.) 
(quered) WATITIIeD diJaI 


6 eg o-wqlryees 996T ZZ:0T € Ady 


B- 110 


{ 
? (d3z7) unqe. 
$ (curesgyp7(» GuTerIQUSTIO) ‘OTTS) aaIPeOCd = GZIT 


£0 = sHeysolopu’ curerzgT 

-aSTWa = CHWapuNo; ° cuertgt 
/+s ° (0 ‘0) 03 O20q 3T ATUT ‘awED EnNTT Aqtedoad & pear 03 Quen NOA JT 
‘euoTe steqsTbe1 10100 S,CUTQOeM EG} GAOT O23 SF QTNeJop SyR Sues y 
qeyQ ‘deur s0Too ey 410g °3eX sueqsTHe1r A0OTOO qYWD 40 Ajuedoid gung Aue , 
peei 3, ueAey am QeTQ sp.icce1 qsnf eTduexe sty, ‘Ss}[NeJep eptTa-uwesbo1id , 

ey 03 sbutaqes Aquedoad s,euretz QueTTO TeAeT-do} SYR SZTTETATUL ¢/ 


‘ qenrpeey = 3e93906°curesjQuUeTTO’ curetgzT 

‘WATIOg}e5 = wi07706° eureraqqueyz[o° curerzsy 
JT Pus 

‘dnosndyas = do1q 706‘ euresqquey lo’ sures rT 

Sdnosgdpas = ASTT1_06° eweszqquey [O° eurergzy 
OSTO# 

'WATIAGR09 = do1gq_e6: cures Quey [O° curerqy 

{(WATITTAICN = 3STT1{OO: eureaqqueyz [O° ouresgy 
Aouez J T# 


‘XWIO daI = GFF a 
S@LTS ONOT 
(eTTZ) emyoTapeed daal 
/eeeeeeEERESESERERESESETESEEEEETUEEESETESEEELEEEST SEES EEEET SESE REESE EYE ES 
¥ 
ufeW O72 peAow (STTJ)SSOTD =x 
(ufeu eaoqe) TeqoTS epeul cuetzp 
98-€0 WD euddeyos uAToseD Aq peTSTPON » 


¥ 
‘buTpeesr 103 uedo erpuey eTTs e UeATH ‘eETTZ gal ue wosz emzotd & peoy 


¥ 
PRECESEFEFESSTTSFFVES SSF SFEFESTFESFETFESFEFFFESFES ESF EY () enqofapeey vx/ 


J eeeeeesESEUSEREEEEED EST ESET EETEEFTEETE EVES TELESEPEET TESTS EEE RESET EEF ELST 
+ 

‘peeu no dnueeTS s.0ASzeYM Op ESED y 

WaYN ANA ©G3 erfeu pue “ANOd dal = GJJF AOS 3, USeOp Wey ESseo SUH) CI ue x 
UTA ESE KGOM AI SuW eoeTdet--sxuMYS SYHD JO szequmu Aue WATA IXLa WHOd © + 
-6°e--soxMYO eRep JO JequU ETqeT7eA eB suUTe QUOD FeYyQ edAR WYOT & peer OF 


% 
¥ 

002 ‘WATIAGISHN UF QUSMBIeS TORTAS CUZ ¢ 

03 sesnetTo ppe (030 “SNWD ‘avaD) sommyo Aquedoid jo spuy> S1cul peet OF, x 
*Quoms}TeIS TORTMS SY 02 SesNeTO ppe ysnf ‘souMYyo Jo Spuyy Sicul pest OL ¢ 
s 


ERURELELELESESESESEVS TREES EEEsesssseese WATIOAISO BuTpue xe uo SOON ve/ 


rn 


? (a3z7) umqer 
‘ (axe QUODULI03 9) dnosNYyesoTD 


$(dzz7q)umjer (aNOd aa =i G3t) JT 


wT ebeg o-uqitTees 9g6T 2Z:0T € Ady Tr e6eg o-wqrtees gg6T zz:0T € Ady 


B- 111 


Sdag = WAOgMeTA’A 
2 (day) 2A0gAF FUL 
£ (09) METAATUL 
/~= 3¥ G104S801 UeD ON OS yf =‘ MBTATIOW<-OSeGXJD = MOTAPTOs MOTA oe 
-F 3 
} ‘eumerguqr tad, suretgygTI ‘wq, dewatd 3on-4s 
(curexzmqTT3d ‘uq) ot ghetdstq 


JeeveseeESEESUCEESUCEUEEEEUUSEEEVESESEEGESTETESERES USER ESTESEFESES ESE EE EETE 
¥ 
*SOUTRNOA WOW SOTUde.sH ehtTuy 02 GoeztEQUI » 


¥ 
SREVELEFTFEFESESFVEFETFFFEFSSFSESTSSETFEFETSSEFSFFEVESEF FESS () oFagketdstd s/ 


{ 
pegdsy = /eaaT AWds/ 
‘quoysisw /*INNHD LaOHS:/ 
‘uioz0sy /sW8OT Avds/ 
‘AOLITQUSTIOOSW /» BONA LNAITOs/ 
‘OLTAONDSW | /eATIAONs/ 
‘q0nSsy OO /e aT LONs/ 


} = [t+souad Isw1 (jut) -] sebessongaaIy ateyo TWOO1 
/+ \\8adaO IHDIY NI WWdddW ISMN ASAHL +/ 


‘{ ,°STts daar pet6uem w (gzarava), } = (Jpeaisw zeqo WOOT 
‘{ ,°WATI WaOd pouroztew yw (xNNHD LYOHS), } = 
‘{ ,°RAII WHOT pomsozteu vy (WUOr ava), } = (Jwr0z6sw sey WOOT 
{,°Wwad WUeTOTZZNsSuT 40 Hnq waTIACUS (wOWdA INAIT) u 
} = [JsorzrqquetToosw szeqo WOOT 
‘{ ,°punojy eTTz qons on (AZIIT ON), } = LlettaonNosw zeyo IWOOT 
«$f.  “OTTF AAI we AON (ZaTTION), } = 
‘{ ,°40118 ue peumjes sog euL (aouNad Sod), } = 
‘{,°euop Ttw (ANOd aaI)y, } = 
‘{ ,ce6esseu stqy 366 noX ptp soy (aWWONd) 4 } = (ayzewpugisy sey TwOOT 
‘{ ,°@TTZ ©U3 UT WHIT WuOd © putz 3,UPTG (xWIO_4JI) u 
}= []AexoSsy zey> IWOOT 
/= °S8P0O gaa 403 sHuysz3s ebessoy ,/ 


ZTS ZOsnq CUuTJop}F 
/-°ShO1 WATI 0GQ Gut tquesosun uf pesn szezznq Ares0dmeq & Jo EZTS ETA SUTJEq s/ 


‘emretgy SWAT WOOT 

${0} = da Qi0gMetA ONS WOOT 

${0} = A M®TA 20N498 TWOOT 

{qi qVogqsey WON-NSs TOO! 

/,» euy ue buyAetdstp 107 »/ 

/s®lTZ uM, Gus 206 ea, Nok ZT yz ESeqUOOT Jonns, ‘ATTeENQoy x/ ‘eSeqUOoT ONOT 
‘esegxgjd, SSegxXJD 3On-4s 


z ebeg O°wqTTAOUS OG6T LZ:PT E Ady 


/» szequtTod ebesn Tezeueb ,/ 


SRG CRE 


OTIEYS TWOOT SUTIOPH 


ut’ COTTEWOI/Z IT, OPNTOUT# 

wl’ 2OFdpees/JJT,, SpNTOUTH 

at’ dnzteqs/yousqy10K, EpNTOUT#. 
wd Gouseqyton/qous@0K, SpNTOuTit 
ut WALT/JIT, SPnTOUTH 

wd’ SueqxXesop/SeTAeAQT[, SPNTOUT# 
ud’ SOp/SOFACAQTT, OPNTOUTH 

ad’ TTENQUT/JZT,, SpNTOUT#H 


/s SPPFFFFFFFSFEYSSLFEFFEFFEFFFEFFFEFFEFFEFFELFEFFFFFFELFEFFEEFFEFTFEELEEY | 
*dqo.s ¥ 


9°0T6 
9° seopoedun 


SWQTFAOYS ESN 02 UTA AUTLT pue eTTduoo oj peou TT, noA Ae} 

SSOLTJ SU} JO seureu eR eve exey ‘eTTjexeW e Huy onzQsSuO0o sue nOoA ZI x/- 
JeReRREERSEESESUEETEETEEETESTSESETEEET TEST EET ESTE EERE EEE VETER ESTES EET TESTES 
¥ 
| "AO IZTUS 
SU} SSeETEI ‘UOTIOSETES ETA SRSTdMOS 02 e.njQ0oTd TeuTZ uo WTTS-eTqnog x, 
‘MOUS 02 eAnjQoTd yore uo »AOFTO ‘Asx AZTGS UMOP PTOY ‘WATIMOYS UO HTD » 
sqoue—ry 40m wory ebesy , 
; Sf 
*** [Zemjotd] tTem3oTd wqTfaAcys =, 
:TID wosay ebesn ¢ 
3 
‘sqTxe ueqq ‘sesned ‘efeuy ue sXetdstp wesHoid sTuL °ZION s 


* 
*zeqndnoo eituy e1opoumoD eGR 02 OTsTOedS sft uoTRA10d AeTdsTp eUL ,» 
-zested qUeOSep-eATS.moe.1 @ A[[eTQUeSSe ST UoTZI0d 4SEpeel JIT SUL x 


* 
“aadwad dJaI NW WOd WWWOOdd AIGNWXA NW SW SIME dSn + 


¥ 

‘upewop OF Tqnd eyy UT ST SreMQJOS STUL » 

*squy OTUC.QSeT_ ’seXkeyq eASRS pue ‘MeUS eADI{g ‘UOST.1uKW Auer Ag , 
8 

°98-UCL-FZ °37 Aetdstp pue e[tz ebeuy s9jSe1 WATI ue peoy x 


¥ 
SRELESSVESSESESETESESTSSSS STFS SESS SESS TT seseseseszseseseses O WATIAOUS vs/ 


T eeg ovum Taous O61 LZ:bT € Ady 


B-112 


/~= TJUSCHIIOM VTA peroauy ,/ 
} (o6se;) ZF 
‘ (,Aresqy¢[*uooF ON,,) eAgpooy 
( ((0’ yAxesqy¢tuocoty,,) Areaq¢ quedo = esequocy)s )3T 
2 (,Ateaqrt*soyqdes6 on,,) eAgpoog 
( ((o’,,Aresqrt: sopade.s6,,) Areaqypquedo(, esegxzp Qon13s) = esegxjo)i )3T 


/» ‘sseoorghtly sseo0i1g 20n138 sss,/ 
‘AFPPTO ONOT 
‘sBayqa, ‘“Bayqa Saygm 30n44s 
} ‘a6zeg, ceqo ‘fobse Quy (Abaze ‘obxze)uTeU pToA 


JeeeveeeeURESEUESUESEESEESEESSESESERUEEUUEEEUES USSR URES ESET ES EREELY ()upeut »-/ 


/_ seuddeqog uAToreD :peppe ,/ ‘SsyaOUSgM, Gnz7e3SgM JONAAS u.1e{xXe 
{ { 
‘ (astIad>ga0T A) ast TsdQee.g 
‘ (day) sgst 1dopz.10gjee13 
/e*TTeo coTtydtyD eTfuts © eTA seuetd [Te peqeooTTe sawnssy +/ 
‘ (Lo) seueta’ odeun tq) eer qmey 
} (Lo]seuetg’odewntq) ZF 
/+ Gn-uee;,po x/ 


/+ SqUTid JO UOT ITUTJep zeeu ej0U Ses ,/ 
2(,u\,,)zautad —¢ ([dgz7-]sebessowgaar)z3utad = {(,, ,)s9uUTAd 
Je 2 (ut\,)S3Utza =! ([eg3t-] sebessopaaar)squtzd = { (, 4) SauTad 


$ (euresgzps ‘odeuntos) otaketdstaq 
(ANOd aaI == 433) 3T 
| : (PTTZ) SSOTD 
/° ()oottwatap Bursn dewatg se ecorty +/ 
S(CottwataD ‘euesapy ‘odeuntqy ‘el tz) em oTgpeey gel 
S1Tz) 3T 
 (ZITaCIO AGON ‘eM)Hayuedo = STZ 
/» em3otd eqy Aetdstp pue peot ,/ 


/ 


‘TTIZ-ON = GJST daaI- 

‘@TTZ ONOT 
} fem, Saygm Qonz9s (em) QUTEW PTOA 
JeeReRERESREEESETESRTESERESTESEEELERETESERESERET EEE ETE ETE STE EEEEES () ouyew ¥s/ 


{ 
‘ (@ETTZ) umye2 
‘(4TPPTO) ataqque.umD =«=—_ (oo em<-ea) JT 
‘(epoumedo ‘eure en<-em) uedD = STZ 
{ Qo en<-em) AFqQUELIND = ATPPIO § =. (JooT emx<-eA) ZF 
, {OUTS ONOT 
} ‘epoumedo qur = ‘em, Gaygm Qongs (epoumedo ‘en)b.xyuedo ONOT 
JaeeeRUEREETERETESTEETESTEETTEETESTEVESE FES ERT EERSTE PETE REELS SEEPS EESES TSE 
; “SLITZ eyQ suedo AI og 
‘epoul O/I ue pue (eous.zejer eTTz e) ,QuoumB.re qOueq@IAOA, @ UBATD x 
SREFFFESFVSEFFSFESFFFEFFSFFFEFSFEFF EFT EF FET EFFEFFEEFFEFELFFFFEFEFY () Bayuedo s3/ 


y eg o-mqyaoys 9g6T LZ:bT © Ady 


! (0) 3¥xe 
/* 
"uATOIED “°° 
*suedo SOTIIET YEU} + 
MOpUTA eT 02 ebesseul ey SsyndQno , 
STU ‘XNILP- UTA PETTGIOD ION + 
pue (qo'dnzseqsy] UTA pemutt JI s/f (yU\,)339UTAd —? (6su) sQuTad 
/e ‘*(uX\,)S9UuT4za = * (6su) squTag / 
} ‘su, aeyo (su) akgpoog proa 


{ 
‘ (6su)z3upad = (dnzze3Sqnj) ZT 
} ‘bsuy szeyo (6sw) squTag 


/-"Wouegy10M Worx pezsezs ssetum Q s/ {0 = dnzsejsqn, dnqze3SGM IONS TOOT 
J eeeeeRRUSRUEEUESESESUSSUUEPUESPUSERESERESUEEUEEEUESERES () oupeu soz ZznNQs y,/ 


{ 

/». META PTO 03 DEG YORTMS »/ ! (METAPTO) METAPEOT 

/* ‘spuoces ¢ Aeteg »/ $()g0LaTeM «(T++ 2098S > F 70 = F) A0Z 
! (sBeysoTogu<-eurergugqr yd ‘deyropoo<-euesguqt tad ‘day) pgoupeoT 
‘ () JOL3TeEM 

‘() 3FTa3TeM 

‘ (a9) MeTAPeOT 

2 (a9) dopb.y 

! (dig ’ a9) FA0gA@HEN 
foyuTser+2g = osyursey’ da 


/» eam o;d em MACYS ,/ 


/dOwI =| sepow’a 
} (002 < 3y6TeqeEGed: sppugq<-eurerguqtyzyd) JT 
‘SUYIH = Sepoy’da este 

‘9 = sepoy’ da 
(oze => waptMebed: appmgq<-sureszuqTt3d) JT 


3 TpusH# 
/_°We0IDS JO 3eUI0> AzeT steddn ut 37 Aetdstp sheaty +/ ‘a 
@ST 
2A: appugq<-eurerqzUqtTTad = 3esz3zOAq* da 
‘x* uppug<-eurerzUqT TA = 3es5z30xq" da 
/= *3OgMETA EUR ANd 03 UBeLDS UO e.1eyM AZTOEdS »/ ‘ 
0 st 


q° apHuq<-sureszzaqT Tad = yuHTeR™’dA 
(Sey °A* IpHUq<-curetQT FIG) XW = TAPTMA’ dA 


70 = eszzOAq’ ojuTser 
70 = 3ESJJIONY* OFUTSEA 
/~ ‘emnQoTd STYA JO seUI0D pueYy-AJeT Jeddn egy Acys sAeATY v/ 


swq = deyatg’ osutses 
‘aq = dewntga’ ds 
£ (4-29) qa0ggsegq TUL 


¢ ebeg O°wqITAOUS OS6T LZ:PT € Ady 


B - 113 


fqsep = 3seqdy ‘eoumos = eo.unosd, 
SQTxXq4o021g 
‘aS IWd = 10110 
‘ { 
£(90 < u--) ettaa { ‘(5)e34aanan } op 
‘ ()e34g3e°0n = 0 
£atxq4o11g 0306 0 > (u =- seqfgasp) ) ZF 
Sqyxgsossg 0305 (0 > (T =- sezAgous) ) JF 
‘T+ U-=U 
} (eztsnuya =; u) ZF ESTO 


{ 

£(0 < u--) ettua { /(()eakaqeqn)eakaanan =} op 
fatxqsozsg 0705 (9 > (u =- seqfgasp) ) ZT 
{qyxgso1ag 0905 (9 > (u =- seqhgous) ) JT 

‘T =+ U 


‘T 
+ (0 =< u) JT 


: (JeqAqjenn = u 
Satxqsoztg 0206 (0 > (T =- soqdgous) ) 3T 
+ (0 < sejfaasp )STTUA 


/» \sseoons ,/ 


/+ M'diD © EZest0USH 03 seTTdUOD ey 365 ,/ ‘EZT- = BZTSNUTW CyOM 
/~ Coot eyy ySnoswy 47 erxeu GM TTIUM 4Jo11e Gumsse ,g/ ‘ANUL = 404418 JOOd 
‘oseqAgjsp = seqigasp ‘oseqAgous = seqkgous quom 4eqsTbe1 
‘oO qLzq szceqstbe.s 
fu qaam 4z0e3sTbe.s 
fqseqd, = 3S0P, FLAG 20eqsTbeu 
feomogd, = Sonos, ALAG te 4sTbe1 
} ‘oseqhgasp ‘oseqAgous quom ‘3soddy, ‘eounosdss ALAG 
(oseqkgasp ‘oseqAgous ‘yseqd ‘eo.nogd) moyoedun 100d 
/- ‘seykq seqkgysp seonpoud 37 TTWUN s4equTod uoTeUuTAsep pue » 
eo.mos eu BuTyepdn ‘mo1 euo sxoedun ‘seTqet4eA YAINIOd 03 SHALINIOd USATO / 


(2) eAgangn euTzept 


((2) = ++3S0p,) 
()e3Agje0n eUuTJEPH 


(++e0.m0s,) 


wt’ terxoed/3z3ZT,, SPNTOUTH 


Tins oe Saeed setae wes spade ea oe : 
*Jeynduoo ehTuly-S10poUMIOD SI AOJ UOCTSIOA STUL x 


*dOON : 8zT- 
“SOUT? T+(u-) pezeede.1 eq 03 e7hq Aq pemottoz = [4zT-°*T-] 
-ezep 30 seqiq T+u Aq pemottoz : = [zzT° 0] 

:seqhq To1QU00 


xeaanannane 


‘ufewop OTTQnd ey Ut ST EreEMAJOS STUL ¢ 
*Squy OTUO.Q0eT_ ‘AMBYS EASES pue UCSTt0EM Auer Ag » 


* 
S8/ST/TT *uoTssesdmoo unt uTunyezAgdp,, WOIJ Sep WIOAUOD O° 2e>xedUN *, 
Brn nn rn rn nee nnn ener nnn annem neem mnn nnn nnn ¥ 


I e6eg o-seppedim gg6T zZz:0T € Ady 


{ 
‘ (0) 37xe 
! (esequoor) Axerqy Tesot 
: (esegxzo) ene 
{ 
S(t] a6sey = abe 8 --o6 ze 
/= YOTATUTZEP SQUTAg seeU ejoU Ses ’,,SIUTAg, SYM SIHI +/ 
? (,u\,,) zauTad 
! (Bayqey) out eu 
/= UOTATUTJEP SIUT41g Aeeu eROU ees ’,,SIUTAg, AYIM ASHHL +/ 


2(y°°* y)zquTad = ¢ (cure ea Bayqa)zqupid = (,, ETTZ Hutaous,,) z3uTad 


‘(t]a6aze = eurey” en: Bayqe 
} (z =< o62e) STTUA 
/- ‘t}qque.mp ad<-ssesosght sssy/ ‘9 = DoT em’ Bayan 
/~ ‘(0)%serputa(s Sseoo1g Jon13s) = ssecoighm sss;/ 
!(,,,eWeUueTT WATI-M0US, :ITD woaz ebesp,,) eXgpoop 
(z > o61e) ZF 
/yesoueseje1 A102001Tp Ano ejeredes ‘oueu ueos ‘ATTeNQUEAg 
-A10R0@ATP YUOSLIMS JOJ YOOT & SEW “I'D STA pexoaul »/ 
} este 
{ 
{ J Tpusy 
:(,°Aetdstp 02 ETT UO AOTTO-eTqnop eTTyA ,,) ekgpoog 


/» UOTITUTJOP SIUTAg AeeU EQOU ESS °,,SQUTId, THIM ASHHL 3O HLOd +/ 
$(,u\Ao% ,LaIHS, PIOW ueUL ‘WATI-MOYS UO eSnow HOTID ,) ZQUTAd 


¢(,U\: qoueqyji0a wosz ebesn,,) zjutTad 
} (z > cbse) ZF 
/- °*°aeSNn YOusd10M eq} 03 Ssu s0.118 ue 32H 03 Quen om [Gal] +/ 


{ 
‘(t] sbayqns = shbayqu = --ofe 
: ({[T] sbayqey) oupeu 
£ @pot ea: [1] s6.zyqa) apq3Ue.1IMD = 4ATPpTo 
} (z =< oe) STTUA 
‘shayumy ws<-dnqzzejzsqa = obe 
$4sT 76. us<-dnzeqsqa = shuyqa 
/_ szeuddeyos uXjTo1ep Aq petytpow ,/ ‘Hsyyouegy = dnz7eISqa 
/~e ‘abae(, dnzzeysgm Qon4zgs) = dnqueqgqn v/ 


0 sT# 


g ebeg o°wqTTMoUS 986T LU:PT € Ady 


B- 114 


QTL ebyue:qtt ‘Qtr’ Ol: atl AUWaAIT 

wqTTMoUs OL 

O' DOT Tewet’o° Ajj T ‘O° sexNoedun 

¥O WQ[T © oTdpees’o-wqTTMoys ‘fqo-dnj4eq3sT:qtTTt WOU 
UyTAuqTTMoys 


wq{[tMoyus OL 

qtr ebyure:qtT‘QyT°OT:qtt AMWadIT 

© OTH o'OOTTewWel’O* AZT ’O° sexHOeduN 

xO" WWQTT O° 20Tdpees’o-wiq TTaoys ’fqo°dnj4e3sT:qTT WONT 
uatTaBattaoys : 


WALTZMeL OL 

qrr°ebyure:qtt ‘QtT°OT:Qtt AUWaAIT 

O°'MJJT ‘o'senoed ‘o-muqty ‘’o°R,0TdQnd ‘o-wqT Tze ‘Cqo-dnq4ueqsT: qt t WOud 
UTA WqTTzZMel 


WATTZMeL OL 

qtr ebyue:qyt ‘QTL OT: ATT AMWAAIT 

o'0TH ‘o'ayJT ‘o°senoed ‘’o-muq{y ‘o°:;o;dQnd ‘o-waqTyzaes *Cqo-dnz4ze4sT: Qt WOUd 
uta’ Bartzaer ¢ 


cumpuqtt OL 

arr ebyure:qtT ‘QtT°OT:ATT AUWAIT 

o'oqutTAduq ‘O°’ OOo TTeulEet 

yO'AJJT ‘O'sexyoedun ‘o-amiq{yT ‘o°30Tdpees ‘Oo: dumpuqTy ‘Cqo’dnqsze4sT:qtT WONT 
yyTAdumpuqty : 


MeAZWqTT OL 

qyr ebywe:qtT ‘QtT’OL:atT ABWadIT 

, O° SOOT [burnt 

yO°AJJT ‘O° seyoedun ‘o-auqty ’o-joTdpeesz ‘o-meszuqry ‘Fqo-dnzzeqsT:qTT WOYd 
UAFA'MeATUqTE 


HOSUOJTF OL 

qrr:ebtwe:qtl ‘Atl’ OT: att AWAIT 

O° AzZT‘O' HOSUoZZT ’Fqo°dnjseqsT:qtt WoO 
UTA’ HOOUOIIF * 


YOOUDIIT OL 

qrt ebyure: art ‘QT OT: att AUWadIT 

0° 076‘0' Azz FO" MOSUOJ ZF’ Fqo-dnqsze3sT:qtT WOU 
UTA’ Hooyrsst : 


uata‘uesboid YATA JNITW 

:puemuoS eyq eaT6 pue ‘ATT enpyATpuy wey Adoo 

ues noX Qeuj os ‘setts ,uqTA‘wesboud, Jo wioy Sl UT peptaoid 
xqpuedde sTy3 UT peuTe}UCO SeTTJ SYR soz UCT JEULIOJUT Sup UTT 


oe 
4 
e 
eo 
e 


T e6eg YUT"ee"zZ 9BET BO'9T 22 Ady 


{ 


{ (40.119) UN{e41 


z e6eg o-ueyoedum 9g6T 7zZ:0T € Ady 


B- 115 


Appendix C 


MEMORY MAP—DISK FORMAT 


This appendix contains a software memory map and disk format information. 


Software Memory Map 


The software memory map is for the software developer who may be accessing the sys- 


tem hardware registers directly. It is simply the hardware memory map appropriate to 
the Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manuals. 


A true software memory map, showing system utilization of the various sections of RAM 
and free space, is not provided. The system is dynamically allocated and linked such 
that it would not be possible to show precisely which parts of RAM are utilized by the 
ROM Kernel. User code, if written with the Amiga Assembler or Amiga C and linked 
by the Amiga linker is relocatable and can load and execute wherever there is a large 
enough area of memory in which it can fit. 


Therefore, aside from specifying that Exec manages the lowest parts of the 68000 


memory space (exception and trap vectors), no actual software memory utilization map 
can be provided. 


Disk Format Information 


This information will be useful to the developer who wants to take over the entire 
machine—that is, instead of using AmigaDOS to load the application’s code, the appli- 
cation boots directly after Kickstart, without using either AmigaDOS or Intuition. This 
appendix provides two pieces of information: the disk boot block format and the format 
of the actual data on the disk. 


‘oul ebyuy-e1opoumoy Aq 

S86I *5eq UT PpeUsTtIaqnd eq 03 souTTepTnh uos AeanSyjuod-o04ne 
@UQ 02 S4eupe Asnu abuer sTyQ UT Puodse. OQ peubTsep sp.ieog 
:buTposep AO TS uoTsuedxy (1) 


:dWW AYOWAW WEISAS SHL 40d SZION 


¢ o6eg dey: A1omayy’e1e8M3JOS SB6T BI:ST 6 20d 


A LS SNe See ee ae ee 


"AVA 24eASHOTH 40 WOU WALSAS 444343-000084 

‘esN GANQnJ 4103 peAsosoy J4i4L4-000004 
*mMoTeq (T) e ou 

ses ‘Bbutposep oTs uoTsuedxy 444474-000083 

"eSN EANANJ 103 pevsosoy J4d4L43-000003 
-dew 


Axrowaul = [Te12aao styuq BuTAoT{os 
Aja ,ejtpouut sebed oqesedes ut 
Ppetjtoeds aue sesseuppe dytyo euy 
*“sseuppe quom 49qsTbe.1 dtyo euq 
Ajyoods sqT6tp eeuuy 3AseT em 
e1s4uA ‘sdTyo esodind Tejoedg 444330-000330 


esn eANgAnsy AOJ PeALSSEY 4i71I0-000009 


Jo eHuer OQ UT SseSsouppe 4ELNC 
*moTeq (Z) eJOU UT UdATSH O4e soweN 4s9QSTboy 
*pessacce 
eq O02 ST oO7zss PU2 Jo su4ayAstTbe1 [eUr8QUT 
QT 842 JO YOTYM SesooyuD ATHTp peut[T4epun sul 
(sesseuppe e3A4q ado 


ae Aluo pessssoe) y-ozsg 10333d-T00aaa 


wre er reer eer eee emer wom mmmeonmetem@meowmm mem wmemeer ewe em ea wm ew wm wee ewe ew oo o@ 


ev e6eg dew: Arcwap-asen3jJos S86I BI:ST 6 2d 


(¢) Jou osTe seg -pesses;e 
eq O02 ST O7zSse SQ JO suaqjstTHhe1 TeUr28QUT 
9T 84Q JO YO TYA SesoOU> ATHTp peuT[4epun suL 
(sesseappe 03Aq NIAF 
3e Atuo pessesje) g-07S8 003038-0000328 
“MOTeq (T) eQ0U seg 
*9EN BANQANJ 40OJ PoAussoy 


eoeds uojTsuedxe seposep [eui9eAxy 3I7770-00000V 


weweweerewwrerwerer owe eee ewe eow ere woe e eww weer ecaewtoeewoe 


‘e6ues STU UT SSB8ODB ION CQ 333I3T-000080 
WVWU 4ZTS 103 soeds WHA 3333L0-000000 
{ wa »AzTSs ] 


Ser ewwweweowo@oec awowe woe wnee@mererwoeeweoweereewooeew oe eroeoe 


*$200jJe epts snousHuep - eHuer stu UT sseoDe ION Od 


*POTIEISUT JOU P4eod HAQGZ B1AXS JT pesn ION 000080-0000%0 
Wu 19GZ 40z eoeds WY JITIIE-000000 
{C wu »9Sz ] 


"40149 SSoiuppe ue eqei13ue5 TI1mM NOA ‘peposep ATTe Tj Toods 
Q0ou ST 2etM Sssouppe ue OQT4A 4O peo’ 02 ADeTeS NOA JI :e20N 
*Tenuey siemprey ebyay eyA UT PpuNoJ eq UBD STTEIEp TeuoCTIATpPpe 
Que1inds pue §,07S8 eI 403 squouwUHTSse ATq TeNnQsy ‘TenueW os1emp.ey 
Od ebtuy eyy worl (oJuT 0zS8) a pue (dew-wew) q seTotpueddy ey jo 
UOTAeUTqQuUOD BV ST [enuew [eWI8y WON etm 40J dew Aiowouw we jsAs sTUL 


- dWW AXOWAN WAISAS 


Tt e6eg dew: Aromeye1eM2yog SGI BI:ST 6 20d 
% 


(souetd usas) o[npou euetg 31¢q 

(seuetd ppo) o[npow suetd atg 

(s21q 91 AO7J) Gg sasQUTOYg 4023T TG 
(satq ¢ u6tH) 

@‘°3SP 4AO Sus 03 4EQUTOYg 49822TIG 

d OINpon 4933 T Id 

(S2tq 9T MO1) D 4sBQUTOg 4922TIgG 
(satq ¢€ UbTH) 

D°3SPp 40 Sus OF 4eBQUTOg 41923TIG 

D CINpom 4923T IG 

6e.s ejep 5 souNn0s 4923TIg 

ee QT MO}) @ 4OQUTO”g 4922TIG 
$21q € UOTH) 

@°3SP 40 24S 02 49QUTOYg 4822TIg 

@ O[INpow 4832 T Ig 

6e2 e2ep gq SduNOSs 48223TIgG 


(S31q 9T M07) Y AeQUTOg 4822TIG 
(satq € u6tH) 

W°32SPp 40 S48 02 ASQUTOg 4022TIG 

VW OINpow 4922 T IG 

bes e2ep y S24n0s 4923TIG 


(auBtey “uaPTA Aoputn) 
SZ2TS pue W4ueys 492I3T Ig 
T 4aqast6e4 [01QU0D 41833TIgG 
0 403s160e41 To1QUOD 49823TIgG 
W Soanos 40J {sew P40M ASeT 418223TIgG 
W Sounos 40J Sew P10om ASATJ 49223TIG 


SEE BE BEE FBEFEFEE BET BES 
o 
~~ 
°o 
: 
a 


SUNTOA € TeUUeYD OTpny 

Potted € TSuUeYS OTpny 

yqbueT € TeuUeYD OTpny 

esta QT MOJ) UOTIeEDOT E€ [SsUUeYD OTpPNy 
S21Q € YOTH) UOTQBSOT € TeUUEYO OTpny 
e3eq € TeUUeLD OTpny 

SuM{[OA Z T@UUeUD OTPNy 

poftied Z [TeuueYyod oTpny 

yqbuelT Z Teuuey otpny 

S2ITQ 9T MOT) UOTQAeESOT Zz TeuUeYD OTpny 
S21q € UBTH) UOTRESCT Z TeUuUeY OTpNy 
: e3eq Z [euUeYS OTpNy 
SUM[OA T TeUUeLD OTpny 


(S21Q QT MOT) UOTIeDSCT [T [euUeLD OTpPNy 
(S2tq € UBTH) UOCTIeD0[ [ TeuUeELD oTpny 
e2eQ I [euueYo oTpny 


SBPBESESESSSESESSEESEE FEETEE 
g 
od 
S 
eB 
< 


NOLLWNW1dXa M/U L3S3130 GWYN 


6 e6eq dey: A1ocmey’e1eN230S GE6I BI:ST 6 20d 


SUMTOA O TeuUueLy) OTpny 
poytieg QO TaUuUeYD OTpny 
yqbuet 9 TeuueuD ofpny 

ieete QT M07) UOTAeDSOT OQ [eUUeYO OTpny 

S21q € W6TH) UOCTIeESCT O [eUUeLD OTpny 

e2eq 9 [eUUeUD OTpny Wvo Lvaoany 


Peel TOAQUOD “HSTP ‘oTpny oto YNODNdV 
BATAM [OAQUOD “HST ‘oTpny 460 NOONdW 


ew reer woe pam wm wee eee eweoemmwmowmoewoeeoeweree eee eace 


evo TOAOdNY 
gvo wadoqnv 
vVvO Na TOdNY 
zwo ‘DT0danv 
HOTOCNY 


=i EREEEE 
°o 
S 


NOILWNV1dxX3 M/Y LIS330 | 


* Aawpunoq 
(QTq-9T) YOM UeAS Ue Qe peQecoT st ue_astfe1 yor 


‘dew Aiowsu weqshs eu JO [T e30uU UT UMOUS UOTAUBALIOD 
eu. SMOTIOJ BHutsseuppe eum  uTeby ‘000330 48«xey 
ZO Ssauppe oseq Sl 02 Poppe eq Asn MOTeq UMOUS euNBTJ 
sseuppe woeg °Od ebtuy eu ut sdtyo esodund teTseds 
OQ 4OJ SOSSeAppe §  ,,20SJJO,, 9432 S1B BHuTACT{IOJ euL 


SaSSTMAV dIHD 3WSOduNd TwiIdads 


@ 1sqsjTbey [01QU0D gm 003030 Tosa3za 

W zs qsTbey [o1QU05 WD 003030 Tos3 3a 
4e3sT6ey [o1QU0D Adnsse8e Ur WI ooadaza Toqs.2a 
4aaqsTboy e2eq [eT4esg was) 86000034 1093348 
pesnun ss - -- -- oogaad 1T0@3a34 


49e3sTHey 401d dal uoTH THGOL o0ovWd3a Towaaa 
HOOT) GOL PIN dINGOL 006024 106338 

HOOTD GOL AoT O1GQ0L 0oogsda3d toea3a 

4eqst6ey USTH @ UWIL IHa@L 002034 T0OL33a 
Jaqs{bey aol gq WIWLL OTaL 0090348 10933a 
4eqstT6ey U6STH VY WaWIL IHVL oosdad tosa3aa 

49 sTHey AO] VY WaWIL OlWL oovd3d Tobs3a 

u@, 4A9Q9sTHey UuoTIASeuTG Beg wadqd 0o0o¢d3a toea3a 
uW, 4209876ey UuoTQOe1Tg eBIeG q@uqq 00za34g toza3aa 
@ Asastboy ejeg [essudtuag gid oota3zd totaza 
VW 1e3sTbey e2eq [e198udyuedg Wad 000da3d Tooa3a 


(epow pes.) /(e274M) 


Sewer reeewrwoeonm eer mrmeowwemaewe ere ewe emo nmewmowaeewoewdaaae 


he ee ee ee ee 


‘2STT STUQ UT e41ey UBATH BT (sAcgde T eQ0U 418d) pesseoce 
Sq 02 Sie LORS LOTUA 2B Sseippe SUL ‘SMOTIOZ se 
G48 88,0758 SQ UTUITA susqsTbe1 eu Jo soweu suL = (z) 


® S6eq dew A1cowsy@18NIJOS SE6T BI:ST 6 8a 


@ 4eqstbou eqep o6euy { eo Tads 

VW AeqstHe.1 eqep eHeuy [ eqtuds 
e4ep [oO1QU05D 

pue uoTatTsod dojs 348A T eatids 
eJep uot {sod 

Q4aeAS ZT4AOH-349AQ T EIATAds 

@ 4eqstbe. ejep eHeuwt o oatuads 

W 4seqstbe. eqep eHeuy 9 eqtids 
eep [o1QU0D 

pue uot Tsod dojs que, 0 eQtTids 
e3ep uot ATsod 

Q4eAS ZT4AOH-A4sA 0 BIATuds 


JO1QUOD PUL potted 240g TeT46g 

pees snQe{as pue eQeg A4uog [etTues 
@2T4m S827q dojs pue ejeg quod TeT498S 
ASAUTOd Yse.1jSey 


pee. ejep utd 20g 


Ajed 3jJe[ eep 1eQUM0D 20g 


(Z¥204°349A) e2ep T esnou->xoTIsAor 
(ZTa0y4 348A) eQep OQ esNnou-»yOTQshoL 


(pees) satq asenbe. adniuequl 
(Jes 40 4ueeT>d) Ss{Tq Aasenbey AdnsuS8 Ul] 
pesey satq etqeug 3dnii8qUy 
(saTq eS 40 1eET5) 
S2tq eTqeug 3dni1983U] 


(S3TQ 9T A Aasqutod std 
(satq € USTH) ssjutTod std 
y wus »AsSTd 

(sseuppe Auump pee. AjTiee) 
pees e3eq WW 4STC 
@3T4am &2eq Wd ASTG 
peat smjeqs pue o7Aq e3eq STC 


pees (sme3s 4922TIq puke) TO1QU0D Yd 
(Qe8 4O APBD) OQT4M [O1AQUCOD YW 


(sod 4104-349A Q3eT 4addn) 
q4e3s noputm dstq 

(sod 40y-249A QUOTA 40eM0T) 
dojs soputm dstd 


ea em e2etatdoerwoeawaonaecanawanoee mow e ee ewer ee 2© 2 #3@©=--=— 


zm ow = ff SES BLE MM MM BM EBME SE BE BEE EF FE 


@LvdTudsS 
WLVdTuds 


‘LLoTuds 
SOdTudsS 
aLvdoudS 
WLvd0uds 
11L90udS 
So0d0udS 
wadwas 
wLvawss 
Lvawas 
UL sau 


dNILOd 
OOLod 


IVdTLOd 
LIVG0.1L0d 


iwatxzor 
Lvqgox0r 


WOIUINI 
OAUINI 
UVNALNI 
WNZINI 
LLdISd 
HLDisd 
Na’Disd 
~ULva@MIsa 
Ivq@isa 
ULAWISA 


UNOOWWd 
NOOWWd 


LAISMIG 


NOLLWNV1dXa M/a LIS130 SAWN 


L e6eg dew’ Aiomopyye1eMQJoS SB6I BI:ST 6 28d 


(sod 410) queI1s Maes ewe rs 
eueTa ATq AeBTasTta 

(sod 104) dojs yo.3ej3 eAep 
suetd atq Aetdstgq 


UOTAESOT Pucdes Qe 3.41e9Se1 10SseD01do7 
UOFABOOT ASATZ Ae A4ueAse1 s10sSe001do07 
AJTAUEPT YOIeJ ‘AsUT 10sseD01do0 
(S3Tq 9T #07) 
Bea uoTAeSOT puoses s10sseD0.1do7 
(satq ¢ UbTH) 
"681 UOTAeDOT pudses u0ssel0idoy 
(S2TqQ 9T M07) 
*6e1 UOTABSOT ASATJ AOCSsEED01do4 
(s31q € UOTH) 
, Ger UOTAESOT YASATJ s0sseD01d05 
(00 YOIOD LUVIS ‘SAIMINA Guo ze) 
xx eT[qeq A0[OD 
(4e8[> pue peey) -6e1 eqep uoTSTTIO) 
TOAQUOD UOTSTITOD 


ak 
(sata ¢ up 4ejutod 9 guetd atg 
(S2TQ 9T MO]) seqUuTod ¢ euetd atg 
(satq ¢ U6 4ejutod ¢ suetd atg 
(S2tq 9T MOT) szeQUTOd % eueTd aTg 
(s2tq ¢ Yy6TH) ssqutod % euetd atg 
(S2tq 9T AO) ssqutod ¢€ suetd aTg 
(satq € UBTH) szequtod ¢ suetd atg 
SITQ QT MoJ) sequtod zg suetd atg 
S2tq € UbTH) sequtod zg suetd atg 
S2ITQ 9T MOT) ssqutod T euetd atg 
(satq ¢€ USTH) szejuTod T euerd atg 
{3ABAUOD TeTues 03 T©TTe1eg) 
elep 9 euetd atg 
{Q4GAU0D TeT4e8 02 [eT Te1eq) 
e2ep ¢ ouetd atg 
(Q4eAU0D [eT4as 02 TSeTTe1eg) 
ejep y suetd atTg 
(249AU05 TeT49s 03 TeTTeW1eg) 
ejep € suetd atg 
(Q4eAU0D [eT4eS 02 TET Te1eg) 
ejep z sued atg 
(Q4GAU0D TeT49sS 02 [eT Te1eq) 
ej3ep [T suetd at¢q 
(T02QU05 
TTO458 ZT40y) ‘ber [o1QUOD SUeTg ATE 
(toaquos AQTAoTAd) ‘bear TozQuoS euetd atg 
(S2TQ [O4QU0D osTw) ‘6e1 [o2QU0D eueId aT 


wrerr er er Hee e em meee eww mene womwmmwmemmeo emma eew cee Oe eee 


225 EF FPF BEB FE F FFESFEFESTEEEE BME EF FEBEE BAH BE R 


NOLLWNV1dXa M/Y L3S330 aN 


9 s6eg dew Aicway’e1enQjos SB86I BT:ST 6 ed 


*(831q € Y6TH) 9°ASP 40 dus 03 sEQUTOYg 10e2RTIG 
W Bo4unos 10J Hsew pom AseT 419823 ATI 

W S0unos 40J AsSeU P40M ASATJ 498I3TIE 

T 4eqst6e1 TosQuoD 41933TIq 

0 4AeqAs}He1 TosQuOS 48IxIATI_ 

*SUTT TeQUOZ10Y HuoT Jo -AuaptT 40J eqo135¢ 
oudAS ZT40Y 4A0J eqo13S 

Qwetd °242,) GA WTA oUAS zTu0Yy 203 eqo1Q4g 
NOI pue GA UATA SUAS ZT40Yy 403 eqo13g 
"e3eq pue uoTQoeuTG (ATQ %) 340g Jog 
TOAQUOS pUe PoTt4ag Auog TeT4eg 

SATAN sIaTq dojs pue eAeq A40g [eT4eg 
(dotz ewes pue) atq “67s Asow que, eITIM 
weeq JO UOTITSOg Zy40y pue A418, SATI1M 
4JeAutod yseaujay 

8AT4am e3eq Wd AStd 

yabueT »std 

(S2Tq 9T MoT) sequtod y»sTq 

(satq € Y6TH) sequtod ystq 

(pee.1) satq jasenbe.s adnassqur 

peay satq etqeug jadnisaquy 

pees snjeqs pue 9s jAq eReQ AST 

pear snjeqjs pue eAeg quog TeTuss 

pes. eqep utd 30g 

(Zya0y’Q4eA) ated QuBT4 eAep sz9eQUM0D og 
(Zta0y’Q4ea) sated azeT eAep sz9eQUM0D 40g 
pessa TOAQUOD “HSTp ‘“oTpny 

(aeeTS pue peosy) ‘Hes eQep UOCTSTTIO) 
(zT4a0y’Q428A) eAeEp T esnou-»oTAsAor 
(ZT404’Q49A) eIep OQ eESnoU-»pTasAor 
(sseappe Awimp pees ATsee) peas e2eqg Wd STA 
(dotj ewe1sj pue) 3Tq ‘Hts ysou Que, peoy 
weeq JO UOTATSOd ZT4Aoy pue ques, peay 
pees (snqeqs 483TIq pue) To1QU0D Wd 


(dotj eure1z pue) 
2Tq “HTS Asoul Usp OITIM 
(dotz ouwe.sj pue) 
AaTq “Hts Asoul Que, peasy 
weeq JO UOTATSOg ZTA0Y pue YUVA EATIM 
weeq JO UOTATSOg ZT10y pue Aap peoy 
Quetta *248A) GA WITA 
ouAS ZTA0Y 40J Eqo1QAS 
*SUTLT TeQUOZA0Y Huot 
JO UOFAeOTJFAUSepyT AoJ eqo13S 
ouAS ZF40y 4oJ eqo1AS 
N6a pue GA WaT SUAS ZTA0Yy 403 eqo13S 


Serer eoeroewrereoweeeweeee eee eee ww ne we oe wm oe 


mmm SSS SSSSSSTNONNNS SESE 


%00 
z00 


*eouenbes HuT1epi0 
stuq sejoid Aeu oym suedotenep e1emQjos jo sousTUeAUCD 

eu 4AOJ ssouppe dtTyo Aq 4uepso TeoStTucumu UT pepTAoud st 
sessoippe esodind teToeds drys eu jo BbuTast[ HuTMottoy euy 


YN YY mMEm Fs 


NOLLWNW1dxX4a M/A LaSIIO 


9720 


900 
Wzo 
v00 


Veo 
dato 


9t0 
8t0 


i ee 


6 e6eg dey: A1rcupperemayosg SE6T BT:ST 6 20d 


(SATq 9T MOT) saquTod 
(satq € UBTH) szequtod 
(S2Tq 9T MOT) saqutod 
(satq € YBTH) saqutod 
(S2Tq 9T mOJ) szaqutod 
(satq € Y6TH) szequtod 
(SQ2TQ 9T MOT) saqutod 
(satq € YBTH) szaqutod 
(S2Tq 9T MOJ) s8quTod 
(s37q € YOBTH) se qutod 
(S3Tq 9T Mo‘) saqutod 
(satq € YBTH) 4ejuTOd 
(S2TQ 9T MOJ) sequtod 
(s2tq € UBTH) szequTod 
(S2TQ 9T MOT) saqutod 
(satq € U6TH) 4equTod 
@ AzaqstT6eu eqep ofeut 
YW 4aaeqst6e41 eqep sdeut 
e2ep [o1QU0D 

pue UuoTATSOd dos 44a, 
ejep uoyatTsod 

W4eqS ZTAOH-AUsZA 

@ seqsTbe4 eqep sdeuwt 
yw 4szoqastTbeu eqep ofeut 
eqep T[o01QU0D 

pue uoTyTsod doqjs Aus, 
eqep uotatsod 

Q4uejs ZPAOH-I439A 

@ 4eqstTHe4 eqep obfeut 
Ww 4eqstTbeu eqep cbeut 
eqep [o1.U0D 

pue UuoTITsod doys jus, 
eAep uoTaTsod 

Q4ueAs ZTAdH- Aus, 

@ A93sTHe1 eqep odeut 
YW 4doeqastbe4 eqep sbewt 
eqep [o1QU0D 

pue uot yTsod doqjs que, 
eqep uoTaATsod 

Q4ueAas Zf40H-349A 

@ 4eqstT6e1 eqep odeut 
YW 4aaastTbea ejep odeut 
eqep [o1QU0D 

pue uoTatsod doqjs 44a, 
eqep uoT3aTsod 

Q4eQs ZT4A0H- U8, 

q@ 4sqstbe1 eqep odeut 
W 4doeqastie. eqep sHewt 
eIep T[oO1QU05 

pue uot yTsod doqjs Aus, 
eep uot ATsod 

Q4eqs ZTA0YH-I48A 


e2T Ads 
e 3T4ds 
aatTuds 
a3 T4ads 
aatads 
eatuds 
a tadg 
83T4adg 
aatads 
aI Tads 
aatads 
a yads 
aatadg 
98 qtadsg 
e 3T4ads 
aatads 
a3 TAads 
a3 t4dg 


eqtads 
eqtuds 
er atads 
e3TA4ds 
eT Ads 
ea3T4ds 
eqTAds 
eq}A4ds 
eqtadg 
eatids 
a qtads 
e Atads 
eqtads 
e TA4ds 
elatuds 
e3T4ds 
23 T4dsg 
e {TAds 
e T4ds 
ea Tads 


eqtidgs 


2 SFE F FEET BE BFS FS FFE BE FFF FE FFEFFSETSSFSIEETEITFITEE 


eer wren reer ee ee eeo eo erm meme meow wm mm meme ene ewe oo we 


NOILWNWIdXd M/Y LISIIO 


aet 


WET 
sett 
9eT 
veT 
zeT 
OeT 
azt 
I2T 
W2eT 
8zT 
92T 
beT 
e2T 
O2T 
act 
3LT 


Wit 
BLT 
9LT 
bLT 
zLT 
OL<T 
a9T 
o9T 
WOT 
89T 
99T 
vot 
c9oT 


o9oT 


ILdLudS 
HLdLudS 
‘LLd9udS 
HLd9udS 
‘LLdS ads 
HLdSudS 
‘LLdbuds 
HLdtads 
‘LLdt udS 
HLdt udS 
‘L1d2@ udS 
HLd2 ddS 
‘LLdTudS 
HLdtudS 
‘L1d0udS 
HLd0udS 
@LvdLuds 
WLIVdLUdS 


ILOLUdS 
SOdLuds 
aLvdeuds 
VWiva9uds 
TLO9udS 
SOd9udS 
@Lvds ads 
VLVdSudS 
TLosuds 
SOdSudS 
aLvdbuds 
WLVdbuds 
"‘LLDObadsS 
SOdvudsS 
aLvde dS 
WLW udS 
‘LLotuds 
SOdtudS 


EaLVvVdz yds 
WLVd2 udS 


8 e6eg dey: A1owmpo1emayos Sgs6T BT:ST 6 ed 


C-6 


BIep [04QU0D pue uoTQTsod doyas jue, HY eAtuds 
B2ep UOTATsod Quejs Zy40H-A4aAQ FY EATAdS 
@ 4Aeqstbo1 ejep ofSeut ¢ eaqtads 
VW AsqstbHe.1 ejep aBeut € oqtads 
B3ep [O1QUO0D pue uoTATsOd doqjs jue, ¢€ eQTuds 
BAep uot Atsod quejs zZfp4oy-qus, ¢ eAtads 
@ 4eqstbe.s eqep ebeut zg eatuds 
VW aeQ4sjbe.1 eqep eBeut z oqtads 
e3ep TO13U0D pue uoT ATSOd doqjs q4aAQ Zz eQTads 
e3ep uoTAtsod Aueys Z2y40H-349A v eATads 
@ 4e3stTbe. eqep ebewt { eatads 
W 4e3sT6e1 ejep ebewt { eqtads 
BIep [O1QU0D pue UoTITsOd dojs jue, T eatads 
e2ep uoT3{{sod 4ueqjs Zy404-34aA T eatuds 
@ 403s}be.1 eqep ebeuy 9 eaqtads 
VW 4eqstT6e1 ejep ebeut 9 eatuds 
eAep [O1QUO0S puke uoT ATSod dojs jue, oO BaTads 
e3ep uot Atsod 4ueqas ZTu0y-jue, oO 9eatads 
SITQ 9T MOY) sequtod ~ e3yuds 
S21q € YHTH) aequtTod 4 eatads 
(S2Tq 9T MOJ) seQUTOd 9 eatuds 
feta € U6TH) 4equtod 9 eatuds 
S3Tq 9T MOT) szequtod ¢ sqtads 
(s2tq € UBTH) saequtod ¢ eaqtuds 
(S21q 9T MOT) sequTod » eQTuds 
(satq € UBTH) saequtod y eatuds 
(S2Tq 9T Mo7J) 4equtod ¢ eatads 
(s2tq € UOTH) sequtod ¢€ eatads 
SITQ 9T MOT) soqutod z eqtuds 
S321q € UBTH) aaQuTod z eaATAudg 
S2TQ 9T MOJ) sequtod T eqtads 
(satq € UBTH) 4equtod [T eaTads 
dequtod 9 eqtads 
S3Tq € YOTH 


4squtod 9 e3Tuds 
(24eAU0D [BT4eS 03 TaTTe1eg) eIep 9g eueTd ata 
AABAUOD TeT4ES 03 TeTTe1eq) eAep ¢ sueTd atg 
AASAUOD [eTABS 02 TeTTe1eg) eAep FH SueTd atg 
(Q4aaucD [eT4as 0 can ejep ¢€ euetd atg 





(J4eAUCD TeTAeS 02 T[eT[e1eg) eIep Zz oueTd aTd 
(Q4eAU0D [eT4eS 02 [eT Te1eg) eAep [ ouetd atg_ 
(souetd uaae) o[npow euetg atTg 

(seuetd ppo) or[npow euetd atg 

(1O2QUOD T1O’DS ZqT40y4) ‘bes [o1QUOD euetd atd 
(joaquoD AQyT4oyad) -6e1 Torquos suetd atg 
(saTq [oOaQUOD SosTw) *6e1 To1QU0D euetd atg 
(S2¥q 9T MO]) seQuTod 9 suetd 3atg 

S21Q € UBTH) szequTod 9 sued atg 

SITQ 9T Moy) uequtod g ouetd atg 

SITq € UHTH) sequtod g suerd atg 

S31Q 9T MOT) szequTod y sueltd atg 

(satq € YOTH) szequtod y» ouetd atg 

(s2tq 9T Moy) sequtod ¢ euetd atg 

S21qQ € YSTH) saequtod ¢ euertd atg 

SITq 9T Moy) ssqutod zg euetd arg 

(satq € YSTH) sequtod ¢ suetd atg 

(S2Tq 9T moJ) seQUuTod [ ouetd atg 


Tt ebeg dey Arca, 01809305 


BSSSSSFESSSSSSSSSSESTFSSSSSTSSSESTESESESESEESETSSESETESSEESESTEETTEETE 


ILObudS 
SOdtuds 
@Lvdeuds 
VIVE ads 
*‘LLO€ ddS 
SOdetudS 
@Lvdz ads 
WLVG2 dds 
LLOzudS 
SOdzZuds 
@Lvdtuds 
VIWdTuds 
‘LLOTUdS 
SOdTudS 
@Lvaouds 
WLvdouds 
LLD0udS 
SOd0udS 
‘WdLuads 
HILdLuds 
‘ILd9udS 


SB6T ST:SGT 6 399 


(satq € U6TH) saequTod {1 euetd atgq 
e2eq € [TeUuUeUD OTpny 

SUMTOA € [eUUeLD oTpny 

potieg € TeuUeYD oTpNy 

yabuet € TeuUeUD oTpny 

(S2TQ QT MOT) UOTQAeDSCT € [SUUeLD OTpNYy 
(s2tq € yb UOFAESOT E€ TOUUeYD OTpNy 
e2eq Z [euueYD oTpny 

GUN TOA z TeuueyD oTpny 


(SQTQ QT MOI) UOTReED0T Zz TeuUeUD OTpNy 
(S2tq € UBTH) UOTAeSOT ZF ToeUURYDS OTpNy 
eqeg T [euueY oTpny 

SUN [LOA T Teuueyy otTpny 

pojt4eg [ [TeuueYyo otTpny 

ujbuet [T TeuueyD ofpny 

(S2Tq 9T MOT) UOTAIeDSOT T TeUuUeYD OTpNy 
(satq € U6TH) UOTABOMT [T TeuUeUD OTpHy 
enegq QO [SUUeYD oTpny 

SUMTOA QO [eUUeYD OTpny 

Potiead QO TeuUeYS OTpNy 

uzbuet Oo TeuueYD oTpny 

S2ITIQ 9T MOT) UOTAeSOT O [eUUeYD OTPNHY 
S2tQq € UBTH) UOTAeSOT OQ [eUUeYD OTPNy 


([eS 40 4eetd) saTq ASenbey adnaseqUl 

(S3Tq 20S 4O 4eBTS) SATq eTqeug adnss98QUl 
TOAQUOD UOTSTT {OD 

(2eS 40 1P@TS)9ATAM [O1QU02 YRG 

(sod s0y)doqjs yo jez ex,ep sued 31q Aetdstg 
sod 10y)324e3S Yyo30j3 eAep suertd ajtq Aertdstqg 
sod 204-240 QUuHT4 4sem0T) dojas moputm dsTtg 
sod 40y-249A QjyoT szeddn) queqjs moputm dstq 
Az yauept yorez “asuT Az0ssesD0.1do7p 

UOTFABOOT Ppuoses Ae Aue_Aser s0SseD01d05 
UOFABSOT ASATJ Ae Quejse.s s0ssed0.idoj 

(S2Tq 9T MOT) Bea UOTABDOT Ppuoces u0ssed0udo) 
S3Tq € UHTH) ‘bea uoTAeSCT puses uosses0ido5 
S2TQ Q9T MOy) ‘Hea uOTAeSOT ABATZ sOSssed01do5 
satq € ud Hes UOTAeSOT ASutZ sz0sseD01doy 
He. e2ep y So1nos 4923TIE 

Her e3ep | SOunos 4023TIE 

Hea BAep D Sounos 419633T Id 

d OTnpoy, 4023T Ta 

W OINpoy 4033 T IE 

@ OINpow 49232TTa 

2 OTNpPOW 4833 T Id 

Qubtey “WIPTA MOpuTA) eZTS puke Queqs 410823TIE 
(Satq 91 MOT) dQ seQuTOg 2022TIE 

(satq € USTH) G‘'3SP to dus 03 4eQUTO_ 41823TIG 
(satq 9° MOT) Y 4eQUTOg 4922TTIE 

(Satq € UOTH) Y'3SP 1? Sus 09 4eQUToOg 4623TTE 
(S2Tq 9T MOT) | ASQUTOg 46e23TTIE 

(satq € U6TH) @°ASP AO Sus 03 4EQUTOg 40]3TIg 
(S2Tq 9T MOT) D5 seQUTOYg 4923T IG 


ot e6eg dey: Aroma,’ e1enQjos 


SESSTSSSFETSTETFESSETFEEONSSESSETSSTSTSSETTSTSSEESSTESETSTESTFETSETETETEIETSE 
R 
°o 


S86T ST:ST 6 90g 


(00 80100 LEVIS ‘SAIMING COM Ze) xx eTQEQ 40705 
q@ seqstbe.u wep c6euy 4 eatuds 

VW 4eQ9sTbe1 eqep obewy 4 eatads 

BQ2ep [0.1QU0D pue UOoTATSOd dols Aue, Z EIATUdS 
e3ep UOTATSod AueAs ZyT40H-IAWeA LZ SIATads 

@ 4oqsjTHo1 ejep eHeuy 9 eQtuds 

W 4e3s}6e1 eqep ebewy 9 eqtads 

@2ep [O1QU0D pue UCTITSOd doqjs Qua, 9 SATuds 
BAep UoTATSod Aueys ZT410H-Q4eA 9 SQTAdS 

@ 40Q4sTbe1 ejep ebeut ¢ eatuads 

W 4e3s7601 ejep eHeuy ¢ eqtuds 

e2ep [O1QU0D puke UoTITSOd dojs [eA S EeATuds 
e2ep UoTIATsod Queys Zy40H-34eA ¢ eQTuds 

@ 10Q3s16e1 ejep eSeuy » eQTuds 

W 299s7601 ejep cHeat % eaQtuds 


ZT ebeg day: A1rcmay’ e1enQj30S 


SEBSTESESESSEESIES 
N 
rw 
~ 


SB6T ST:ST 6 9eqd 


* (deB e ATU |] S410jJEeq sdeH GuyUSAsSQUT OU LQTA 
S10290S 910m Auew sTuQ S4e B19 AMOLD{ [ USI 
*4aj3Jnq peor Aw jo 24e38 et Ae GUO STUQ PUTJ J JT) 


T 6 OT It 
SBONTBA 2OSJJO 10]508 
JoT10390s|°---- 172103008 | 1403908 |0103508/ <dy5> 
2STYI SATT 403JNqQ © WOsJ VIA BI JO OIT4M 41OAD-ASITJ 
se cwrexg 


*snon6yQAu0O 

eae e3ep JO S10{50S TT TTe Jet OS ejep HsSTp sty Jo Asou ain 
BAOW HOOT ued “AT puno} BHuyaey “pue oa hq suAS AxBU 9UQ 4OJ 
de6b au ysed youees usu ued QT «“4eyjnq eu UT eIep [eGeT jo 
e7Aq Ase] SYA JO UOTAeEDO], ACWW 4ezJNq SU Ano eunhTj 

UBD BaeNQjJOS SIN STUQ WouZ ‘deh auQ S10jeq UTeMB1 5109508 
e1ow Auew MOU BAPAQJOS HASTP SU ST[92 eNTeA 

YOSJJO 402005 SUL *S10Q90S JO seTues ssiQOoUe pue ‘deb 

YOV!AQ GYQY °“S40QOOS JO SOT4aS & :SHUMNYS 991UQ OAUT PEPTATP oq 
Aew ejep peas oi ‘ods wopues @ 3e HbuTpes. ques an esnereg 


*18J INQ AN UT 

UOFAESOT ASATJ St UATA 410950sS suOSs UbTTe 02 Se OS JaZJNq SIN 
30 Bbuyuuybeq ey. 02 PeAou xOOTC st eIeEp ~Oe1Q SUL *4eZJNq 
@Y42A JO 34eAS SYA 02 poiedwods se suTbeq eAep Jo 10390eS ASuTJ 
BY SjABYM SUTULISISp OQ poUTUeEXe ST 4oJJnq eAep SUL ~*~ 4azjNGq 
@W2 OAUy s3e6 eJep [Te AeUQ Bunsse OF pesr 19e19 TInj e@ uew 
asaou A[QUHyIS 403 HuyoH pue >xoe1Qq ety UO UOTIATSOd 

wopues e 3e Huy {4e3s pees HOeLQ [INJ e seop ebHyuy euL 


*4OC!1Q BUQ SAT4NS1 OA ENT. YORE 
sebueyo 82Aq 395JJO 4102908 EYQ “4eABMOHY ‘40Q90S 4eTNOTIU4ed 
YOeS 10J QUBQSUOD Sie 4SqUMU 4102905 pue sSequMU e212 eUL 

°T ZION 


{6uypoous 40j seqhq ZIG JO »polq e@ se pe zee.3) 
e2ep jo seqkq 7IsS 

[6utposue 4103 pucmGHuo, & se pe Qee13) 
UMS]OeYS eeie-eQep Jo se 7hq inoj 

(6utposue 403 puocmBuo[ © se pe .ees3) 
uns OeyD Aspesy JO se qhq uno0Z 

(Hutposue 407 se2hq QI Jo HOCTq & se pe Qee13) 
(Z Z.LON) OJuT Art@nose.1 So jo seakq 9T 


(6utpocue pW3aw JO sesodund 03 
P4cmBucl, suo se peqeeiq seqkq yy sacge) 


z e6eg 1°xdde Se6éI 61:91 8 200 


(T ZION) 92744 JO pus TTQUN 8109908 jo 934q euo 

Jequmu 1029eS jo 924q eUuO 

| 2 aka wesQ JO 9lhq SUD 
ad = .ewioj oT ebyuay 

e2Aq-jeum103 Jo e2hq suo 


(yoee 68bb = WIN) 

nd xOoTS & ANoIMTA Ty pepooue 

WI -- ,624q SuAS piepuEds,, eTW 30 se27hq ong 
(yoee wvv = BIeP 00 JO serkq ong 


( est 


741029068 YORe jo 
62U8QU05 pepoous-eid GU ST STUL ‘“PepooUs WIN ST EIEP TIV 


[UOTAVZTUBHAO 1020e8- 18g 


°8109908 USeNQeq UBQITIM sdeh on 
*@2ep JO s210Q008 TT uel ‘deh @ se U8IQT4A STINN 


[UOT{RZTUBHAO »E1Q-410g 


PP!1Q 09T/sisput {AD og 
PepTs-eTqnop 
NSTP YOUT 2/T € 


suoTIezZTUeH4iON Beg SE01D 


"UeIIT4A ATTenQ0e eue 
7ASTP eHhyTuy-e10opowmmoy ey UO SITq SI MOY ANOGe STTEIEP oie BuTAOCTIOZ SUL 


LYWuOd NSIC VOINW-FYOdGONNOD 


"ow Aq 03 pequtod uoT eS0T oy 02 dumf pue ‘peatnbe. st 3euQ dnueeTo 
4eu.0 Aue Op ‘xD01q O/I 9A BSO[D ‘s103D9es 300q SUA 8Se1Z IITA eTNpou 
deiqs euL °02 dunf 02 sseuppe quejs Gul SUTEQUOCD OY USL INU st og JI 


*4e6inqep eu OAUT sTIe3 
@po> 2000 Suy Us “peTTeS eq TTA 24eTe weIsAs e UBL 010Z-U0U ST IAT JT 
-- Spod Sin{ Tes @ ST Od “OW PUB 00 ‘:SeNTBA OnQ SUINQe1 EPOD 200q SUL 


* GTes{T xo1q oF et YSeIQ AOU 
qsna anq "Ty Yyseta Aew 3}) SOUSTA IT SB AT OSM 02 9043 ST OPOD 
ooq SUL ° (4S0TG AseNbeyO! sty JO Qew10J eYQ 103 usQdeUD 


“UT Pe@4l G4OM YE S10Q50S OU JO ZI UOTABSOT Ye SVieAs UOTANDZEKY 
* (33333333x0 JO ums punosedetm Arued SATATPPeE UT se) 2901109 eq 

{sna UNS xS0yS euA “SOT Glad eq PrInoys edAQ euL “Y°HOOTQ\IOOG/SaDTASP UT 
Se S1e SpsomHuol sei AS4TJ SUL “SATIeTI1I-4q Eq ISMW Epos Sty ’e10jJ9819IQ 
‘uoyatsod Auesaztque ue Ae weqsks eu Oo QUT PRGA G12 G10IQOES OMQ ASAT} SUL 


SSaI30Ud LOOd SHL 


T e68q 1'xdde Sg6I 61:91 @ 20d 


{ 


{ 
7( GGSGSxO > +4+3NQn, )apoousUzM = ++19dGUaK0 
} ( --t ‘0 < ¥ ‘spsommmu = {[ ‘’4azznquesn = jnqn ) 4103 
/» SA1Q UaAe SI Bpodua ,/ 
{ 


/( ssssxo ¥ (T << ++Jnqn,) )eposuewza = ++19dppo 
} ( --t ‘0 < TF ‘spsomumu = } ‘aazznquesn = jnqn ) 403 


(-peposue Buteq s10jeq 
/*s S231Q Pppo eu epoocuD ,/ UOTITSOd ITq GUO AJET PSeIJTYS Sie SITq UAT ‘“WIW Se epoous 
/ ‘YOOTA GUA JO SIT USAS [Te wWo1y PouLioJ seqAq Jo HOT e oreEW 
: s 
SAT AYOOTS euy » ‘WIN Se epooUD 
#288 A[2901109 UBD eIeEp WU JO PUM UO Saxe. epocucWU ,/ ‘YOOTA UA JO SITQ Ppo T1e worz poeuioy saqkq Jo xOoTG e& OreW) 
/ [spaomumu] 183 Jnquyuwy = s3duaA0 "HOOT ey JO SITq USAS aIQ UsINQ 
/~ 8UO PPO BUA 4EeQze QUOTA squeqs UCTHe1 UBAe OLN ,/ 


‘QSATJ POpoous E1e SITQ PPO el ‘Peposus ST eQEp ey UsUM 


/40J JNQujW = 1Idppo “MOOT e@ se peqeeiq saqkq zZIg Jo eoue eQep aQ pue 


OMQ /x00TQ e se poqeoiq seqAq OT Jo Quaubes auo ‘spuombu0T 
7‘gnqn,y CYyOM se poqeeiq ‘yore ejep jo sajhq » Jo squoufes so1iQ 
{4QGUBAS, ‘1Q2dDPO, G'UOM ‘papoous ATTenptTATpuy seqAq o4e S18 “eAode peqTuosep 
a: } Huyposue 40Q5eS BI Ul ‘“eZTS-xHOOIq eAep e JO sTseq suQ 
/+ (8024q 20U) B2eP Jo STYOM JO sequMU ou ,/ /SPAOMUMU UT UO pouiojied st HuTpooue eu ‘pepoosue WIW ST eIep UsUM 
/» ButTpoous e10ojeq ‘eAep sesn a ,/ f4OJJNQ4ISNy CYOM 
/»s ®2ep peposue ey and 03 e.10UmM ,/ /ABJINQUJUy CYOM > ‘IWYINaO 
( spsomumu ‘4ezJnquesn ‘sezznquym ) S0TgGsposua 
{ 
{ *@eSN GANQAN 4103 PeArESOY 
‘satquane | SITqQppo = ++1eJJNQuesn, 
/» SUOF{ADES OMQ OUQ EUTQUOSe1 ,/ “S8ITZ 02 s10Q90es subtsse sogebtuy Moy 02 
Seje[91 pue eQep QUspuedap swaqshs BHuTQe1edo ST STUL °F ZION 
‘(Sssssxo 9 (++49duBA9,)) = Ss ITqueAD 
/s APOTS JJO yseu asne -eoeTd AuBy4 euQ ut Apeaite ee s3Tq UENO ,/ 
"UB33T4A sem ejep euQ Aen ou YoQeu 02 peqsnfpe sue 
? (Wwwwxo 9 (I >> ++49dppo,)) = saTqppo $JISJJO 10950S OQ “USAITAMS1 ST O21Q OQ UBYA AE Os 
/» PAOM GUA AJTUS PUB ‘SITQ HOTS ww oy JJo yseu ,/ 
} (0 < --Spsomamu )aTTUA Tt 6 OT tt 
? [spsomumu]) 183 3nquyup = 1QduUEAD [@QT4M JO pus [IT2 S103{5es AOU 
/» ®UO ppo eUQ 4eQJe {UGTA Ssqueys UOCTHe1 USAD OL »/ 
|g4035e8 | * - * }9.410390s | 01109908 | 6109908 | <dyD> 
‘sezJnqujw = 12dppo 
. :buTuBt tT Tees Noe1Q Jo 3AINseW 
‘SITQUBAS “SATAQPPO “4qdUeAB, ‘“4Adppos, COM } 
f Tt T z 
/~« (8824q Q0uU) e2eP Jo SOM JO sequMU oN ,/ /SPAOMUMU QUT 
/* ®2ep pepocep ety and 02 e10yA ,/ {4OJJNQLOSN, COM 2 ,@Q374M JO PUs TIT2 8402008, JO eNTeA 
/» ®2ep pepoosus eu. ,/ {JO INQUIW, CYOM 
( spsommmu ‘sezJJnquesn ‘4sezJnquzu ) xO TGspozep <~uNf > | g103508 | °° * {9.10998 | <deB> | 9T10990s | 6109908 | <uNf > 


3d00030/aG00Na WLVd 40d 3d0D aouno0s :7y9e12 STA JO peoi o[dues 


® e6eg 1°xdde Se6I 61:91 g 20g € ebeg 1'xdde Gg6I 61:91 8 200 


C-10 


Appendix D 


LIBRARY BASE OFFSETS 


This appendix is primarily for ‘the convenience of assembly language developers in 
debugging their code. 
ght ~ 


The first three columns in each list contain three different ways of expressing the same 
information, namely the negative offset from the library base of the entry point to the 
particular routine. Normally these values will be symbolically encoded rather than 
hard-coded into your assembly language source code; the Amiga linker resolves the sym- 
bol references. The file amzga.lib contains the routine names preceded by “_LVO,” 
which stands for “‘Library Vector Offset.” 


The fourth column combines the routine name, its parameters, and tne registers in 
which the routine expects the parameters to be loaded (in the samé order as the list of 
names). This would be used, for example, if you wanted to call the graphics library rou- 
tine ReadPixel(). At the assembly-language level, you would do the following. Note 
that this is a code fragment only, and it assumes that the graphics library has not yet 
been opened. 


XREF _LVOOpenLibrary 
XREF _LVOReadPixel 
XREF ExecBase 


GFXNAME DC.B *graphics.library’ 


MOVE.L_ A6,-(SP) ;Save current A6 value 
MOVE.L_ ExecBase,A6 ;sBase address of exec.library 
LEA GFXNAME(PC),A1 sname of graphics library 
MOVE.L VERSION,DO sversion number (currently 31) 
JSR _~LVOOpenLibrary(A8) ;call the function 

MOVE.L (SP)+,A6 srestore A6 

MOVE.L D0,GfxBase ssave the value for later 


* later in the code .... 


MOVE.L_ A6,-(SP) ;Save current A6 value 
MOVE.L GfxBase,A6 ;Base address of graphics lib. 
MOVE.L myrastport,Al saddress of my rast port 
MOVE.L xposition,DO sxx coordinate 

MOVE.L_ yposition,D1 sy coordinate 

JSR _LVOReadPixel(A8) scall the function 

MOVE.L (SP)+,A6 srestore A6 

MOVE.L D0,valuefound svalue returns in DO 


After a call to a library routine, the contents of register A6 will be kept the same as as it 
was at the entry to the library routine. Therefore, if you are making repeated calls to 
the same library, the base address loading need only be performed once. 


You can make your code more readable by defining the following macros: 


CALLSYS MACRO 
CALLLIB _LVO\1 
ENDM 


LINKSYS MACRO 
LINKLIB _LVO\1 
ENDM 


XLIB MACRO 
XREF LVO\1 
ENDM 


where CALLLIB and LINKLIB are already defined in ezec/libraries.t. In place of: 


XREF _LVOOpenLibrary 
JSR _LVOOpenLibrary(A68) 


you would use: 


XLIB OpenLibrary 
CALLSYS OpenLibrary 


If you are not sure that the address in A6 will be correct at entry to a particular routine, 
you can use the LINKSYS macro. This macro will save the current A6, use A6 to call 
the library, then restore A6 at exit. For this alternate macro, you specify both the name 
of the library base and the offset value for the routine within that library. The offset 
value is resolved by the linker. Here is the code from the above example with macros 
used to make the code more compact. 


; (macro definitions elsewhere) 


XLIB OpenLibrary 
XLIB ReadPixel 
LEA GFXNAME,A1 sname of graphics library 


MOVE.L VERSION,DO sversion number (currently 31) 
CALLSYS ExecBase,OpenLibrary 
MOVE.L DO,GfxBase ssave the value for later 


; later in the code .... 


MOVE.L myrastport,Al saddress of my rast port 
MOVE.L xposition,DO sx coordinate 

MOVE.L yposition,D1 sy coordinate 

CALLSYS GfxBase,ReadPixel 

MOVE.L DO,valuefound ;value returns in DO 


(ow) (Arque) Arqugee14 

(ow) (Arqua) ArqugooT Ty 

(1a) (squowermbex )weW[Teav 

(0a/ Tw) (aztse qq’ yooTgxArounsu) wayjeery 

(Tw/0d) (Cuoz{eD0T ‘azTse7hq) SquOOTIW 

; (1d/od) (sjzueuwartTnbex /9z1S27Aq) ue}DOOT TY 

(0d’ TW/0W) (ez FSse7Aq‘/ yoo TgA1ousul’ sTTeeTJ )ezeOOTTeAaEd 

(0da/ OW) (ez TSe7Aq’ 4s FIBeTJ )OWeOOCT TW 

(Tw) (qdnzzejuTz esned 

(TW/0d) (3dn2783UT ’ roquNNAUT ) TeaTeES UTWEY 

(Tw/0d) (3dn2203UuzT / ToqumnjUT ) TeATOESUIPPW 

(TW/0d) (3dnz28 AUT ’ TequnNjUT ).1039aA7UTES 

(oa) (yoeassds )aqe{sresn 

()aqe ysredns 

(1/0) (yseul’ ysmou ) uses 

() 3 yuLIEd 

() ptquog 

()etTqeug 

()eTqesta 

()Snqed 

(sw/ 4a) (szeqourered ‘umnjreTe )379TW 

(Ta’ Tw) (ast16es/ queptsez ) queptseyz ful 

(Tw) (euwed) queptseyputa 

(zw’ Tw/ow) (aseadstqoung /Aer1yuortzounz ‘yahre3)suop_ounyoyxen 
(1d/0d‘ @¥/Tw/ow) 

(8ZTSepoo ‘azTsezep’ FUIQTT ‘3 FUIW{ONIAS /QTaloun; )ATeIGT TOYeN 

(0d/ 2¥/Tw) (azts/Arousul/aTqeL3 tut) IONI4SF TUL 

(10/0d) (uopszaa’ sseTo71e}S )apodz TUL 

( )uotadeoxg 

()yoqedsta 

()yo3 TMS 

(aTnpeyosay 

()eTnpeyos 

()2qU013 pa 

( )rosfTairedns 


(€d/2Z0/Tda) (eT ts ‘@TTZ ‘Hutz )aqnoaxg 
(Td) (OTFZ SAFQOeITaQUISI 

(Ta) (YOoT )rTqquered 

(2G/Td) (qnoourry ‘aT Tz )reyoIOAATeM 
(Ta) (qnoeuy ) AetTed 

(Ta) (ezep)dureysejed 

(Zd/Ta) (yxseur/eureu ) U0T309901d72eS 
(2d/ Ta) (quoumoo / aureu ) uSUMINDIeS 

(1a) (aweu )S0rge0 TAS 

(Ta) (qeyord ) Qayoegonand 

(Ta) (37 eM) FoyoRGIED 

(1a) (queubes )bespeotun 

(1a) (aureneT ty ) bespeot 

(Td) (apoournyed )3Txg 

(90/£0/20/Td) (aztsyorqs /ysPiIbes’ t2d‘oueu) eon ates 
I1Igol 

(Ta) (yooT )zfaq3uerms) 

(Td) (oureu )rTqezeeID 

(ZG/Ia) (yooTarejourered ‘ yOoT )oyur 
(Zd/Td) (YOoTEOJUIST TJ / YOOT )3XONXa 


¥200X0— 
2P00X0- 
8P00X0- 
ZP00X0-— 
9900X0—- 
9°00*0- 
0°00X0- 
eqo0x0- 
¥q00xX0- 
3e00X0- 
8e00X0- 
Ze00xX0-— 
2600X0- 
9600X0- 
0600X0- 
®800xX0- 
¥800X0- 
2L00X0- 
8L00X0- 
ZL00X0- 
2900X0- 
9900x0- 
0900X0- 
eG00x0- 


vS00X0-— 
2400xX0- 
8¥00xX0- 
Zv00X0- 
2€00X0- 
9£00X0- 
0£00X0- 
®200X0- 
¥Z00X0- 
2T00X0- 


OTIFXO 
T7IFXO 
8ZIFXO 
SZF FXO 
vEFFxXO 
eet FXO 
0FIFXO 
9b3FX0 
OVI FXO 
ZSFFXO 
8SIFX0 
2GFFxX0 
v9FFXO 
e293FX0 
OLIFXO 
9LFFXO 
OLIIFXO 
Z8IFXO 
8833xX0 
38 FFxX0 
v6sFXO 
PEF FXO 
OeFFXO 
geF FXO 


oeF FXO 
TAF FXO 
84FFxXO 
oqy FXO 
vOF FXO 
BOFIXO 
OPIIxXO 
9PFFXO 


OPT FXO © 


ZaIIXO 


827% 


9T2 
OT? 


SJOSJJO'qTToaxe 


0°00x0- 
eq00x0- 
¥q00x0- 
3e00X0- 
8e00X0- 
Ze00X0- 
2600X0- 
9600X0- 
0600xX0- 
2800X0- 
¥800X0- 
3L00X0- 
8L00X0- 
ZLO00X0- 
2900X0- 
9900X0- 
0900X0- 
eG00x0- 
¥S00X0- 
3y00X0- 


OvIFXO 
90FFxX0 
OFFFXO 
cSFFXO 
8SIIFXO 
9GFFX0 
v9FFXO 
e9FFxXO 
OLIFX0 
9L33xX0 
OLIFXO 
ZBFFXO 
8833xX0 
283FX0 
¥63FxXO 
P6FFxXO 
OeJIFXO 
9eFFxX0 
oes FXO 
7AF FXO 


cor 
98T 
O08T 
vLT 
89T 
Z9T 
9ST 
OST 
veT 
8eT 
cET 
92T 
o2T 
vIT 
80T 
ZOT 
96 

06 

v8 

82 


(20/1) (YOOTEOJUIST TJ‘ YOOT ouTuexY gyOOXO-— BqIIXO 
(Ida) (yooT) yooIdnd ZwO0x0- 

(Ta) (yOoT) yooTuUN 2¢00x0—- 

(Zd/Tda) (edA3/surea) YOOT 9£00x0-— 

(Z0/Td) (ourenmou ‘ourenpTO)oureusy 0£00X0- 

({d) (eureu OT TASIOTSa eZO00X0- 

(€d/2d0/Tda) (qeszjo/uoyzTsod‘aTTz)Yee9S ¥Z00X0- 
()3nd3no 2T00x0- 

()3nduI gT00x0- 
(¢€d/zd/Ta) (yybuetT ‘rey jnq’aTty)a3tImM ZTOOXx0- 
(€d/Zd/Ta) (yQbueT ‘rejgnq’aeTTy)pesy 2000x0- 
(Ta) (@LTF)BSOTD 9000xX0- 

(Z0/1d) (apowssacoer ‘aureu)uedo 0000x0- 


SYOSFJO°AET" 


OqF FXO 
vOFIFXO 
eos FXO 
OPIIFxXO 
9PIFXO 
OPF FXO 
TOF FXO 
BEF FXO 
393 FXO 
VFFIXO 
BJ FFIXO 
0000X0 


(1d/od‘ ow) (sbheTy ‘saqzAgjnq/ zrazyjnq)squoITTeay #Z0OX0-— OPIFxXO 
(OW) (199W9X93) QUOTYSTqUedO STOOXO- ZeJFxXO 


9€ 


of 


SJOSJJO* TT UOJYSTP 


(Z¥/Td’ TW/oW) (depioy/uqbuetT /razgnq’squans) reaucpAaymey O€00X0-— OPIFXO SBF 
(TW/oW) (eoFAap’squeAd)TeTpueHANdUIGD eZOOX0- 9PIFXO Z¥ 


$JOSJ JO’ ATT aTosuoo 


(Tw/OW) (3STID9SEp/ YSTIOs0IMOS )4STIDWeOUOD 
(1d/od/ ow) (YAbuUeT ‘xeput/3sTIO)IsTIOGns 
(ow) (QSTI9) 4STIOAdOD 

(ow) (QST19) 3STID3TTdS 

(OW) (QSTIO) YTeWIOYSed 

(ow) (QSTIO) YreWFIOIOUI 

(0d/ OW) (QeszZJO/ASFIO)ASTIOATEW 

(1Ta’ Tw’ ow) (yQbuaTxeu’ 183 Inq’ ASTIO) Jn@193e59 
(Td/ Tw/ow) (yqbueT /‘ tezgnq/ysTTIO) jngTO 3nd 
(OW) (QSTI9) promTOyNaUN 


(od’0W) (p2r0mM’ 4STTIO) promM1D3e59uN 


(ow) (QSTI9) pPIOMTNIED 

(0d ‘0W) (prom 4st IO) pIOMTDINd 
(ow) (9STId)zreYyOTOWNaUN 

(0d/0W) (894q/ 4STIO)reYOINI@OUN 
(OW) (9STI9) TeYDIDNISO 

(0d/0W) (834q/4STIO) TeYDTIO Nd 
(oW) (3STIO)3STIDSZTS 

Cow) (QSTI9)4STIOYUSNTA 

(ow) (QSTID)4STIDOSETI 

(Tw) ( TOOdTd ) 4STIOOOTTW 

(od’0W) (azts’ TOOgTS) TOOgTD} Ful 


2600X0- 
9600X0- 
0600X0- 
e800X0- 
¥800X0-— 
3L00X0- 
8L00X0-— 
ZL00X0- 
2900X0- 
9900X0- 
0900X0- 
eG00xX0- 
¥S00X0- 
3400X0- 
8400X0- 
2v00X0- 
©€00X0- 
9£00X0- 
0£00X0-— 
2Z00X0- 
¥Z00X0- 
STO00X0- 


v9FFXO 
e9FIXO 
0L33xX0 
9LFFXO 
OLFFxXO 
78FIXO 
8833xX0 
38IFxXO 
v6FFXO 
b6IFXO 
OPF FXO 
geFFxXO 
OeFIXO 
ZqF3X0 
843 FXO 
BqzIXO 
VOFFXO 
BOF FXO 
OP3JFxXO 
9PF FXO 
OPFFXO 
TOF FXO 


SOSJJO'GFT“ISFTO 





C1Iw) (Mota) MeTAQTUI 
(od’ Tw) (apowmetp‘ 320d9se71) pWIdIeS 
(od’ Tw) (ued /3.20g9Se7) Ueda eS 
(0d’ Tw) (ued’/3104g3Se1) Usd¥3eS 
(ow’ 0d’ Tw) (aTqeLATod/qunoo/q1043se7)MerdkTod 
(1d/0d’ 2d‘ Tw) (A’ x apour’ 310d9Se1) pootd 
(1d/0d/ Tu) (A’x/420dg4ser) TaXTde3TIM 
(10/0d‘ Tw) (A‘x/310d34Se1) TaxTapeey 
($d/Ed/zd/Td/0d‘ oe’ Te) 
(so3AQITTZ ‘xxeul! xxeul’ TA! [X/ ser’ 710g4SeI)uIE73edI 1A 
(¢d/2d/T0/0d! Tw) (nk/nx! TA! TX’ 310d4Se1) TT TAqOO 
(1d/0d‘ Tw) (sbetz ‘ezts / Arowsul) e8T93 1a 
(Tw) (QTTQ) 9T Taso 
(€a/2a/Ta/00‘ ow) (q/ 6/2! xepurt ‘3TOgMAaTA ) PADIS 
(0d’ Tw/0W) (ezTSeTqeLio{oaa ‘eTqeLto oan ‘Ojuleere) earYATUL 
(TW) (VFTQ) FT TAO 
()dJOL3TeM 
(Tw) (34a0d}se2) pugeery 
(10/od’ Tw) (A’x/320da3Se2) Meiqeaty 
( 10/00’ Tw) (A’x/420d4ser aaopeery 
(10/0d/ Tw) (A/x/420d4ser )Merd 
(10/0d‘ Tw) (A‘x/ 320g4ser)aaow 
(0d‘ Tw) (1OTOO ‘310g4ser)ASeYzS 
()3TTa3TeM 
(Tw) (MoTA)MOTADeEOT 
(Tw/0W) (QI0gMeTA ‘MATA ) II0dgAexeN 
(Tw) (eta) doobayw 
(OW) (3IOdMaTA)7ATOGAFTUI 
(Tw) (Qa0d9se2)Q21OG9SeyNFTUL 
(0d/ TW/oW) (Qun0d /SIOTOO’ZAOdMeTA ) FADUPeOT 
() qoungsTe) 
()goungsTe9 
(ow) (Cqouotzeurue )syseyo3 Tul 
(od’ Tw/0w) (zozINGeTQNOp’z10g3s~eI/ CqquoTzeuTUe )sIEezjngoI~@) 
(tw/ow) (320a9Se21/ AOyUOTIeuUTUe )a}ZeUTTUY 
(Zu/TW/0W) (940a3Se2 / AoyuoTQeuTUe’ fqo) qourrayppw 
(Tw) (3t0d3se1)4STI19N710S 
(Tw/0W/0d) (oyursteb/autqnor/adk3 ) uoTsTTT093eS 
| (ow) (o3T1dsa )aztadsauly 
(Z¥/TW/0W) (qaodMmata ‘310g3Se7/qoq) qog_rueYy 
(ow) (a3tadsa)sysenqtul 
(2W/TW/0W) (OJUISTED/ TTeLAummp/ peaHAummp )sT2I5} TUL 
(ow! Tw) (QaOdgMeTA ‘9.10d94Se1) ASTTIONeIC 
(Tw) (Qaogsez) UOTSTTTOD0"E 
(Tw/ow) (Qa0d3ser ‘aq TIdsa )aqTAdsappy 
(Tw/ow) (Qa0g3sez‘/qoq)qogppw 
(1d/0d‘ Tw) (aTqeue’aTA3s ‘/310g34Se1 )@eTAISIJOSIES 
(Tw) (qa0g9ser eTAQSIFJOSASW 
(Tw) (qu0g7xXe3 ) UOJSSOTO 
(ow) (299W9x03) uoguedo 
Cow’ Tw) (Qu0,49x03 ‘dI910dg3sSey )3U0179S 
(od’ ow’ Tw) (qunoo/ butz4s/320g9sSey)3xXOL 
(od’0W’ Tw) (Qunoo/ butz48/q210g3Sey) yAbueT{xXOL 
(Tw) (qa0d3sez) userDSIeVTO 
(Tw) (qa0dg4se1) TOgrTeeTS 
| (Gd/#0/€0/20’ TH¥/TG/0d’ ow) 
(XeZzTS’ XeZTS‘A4Sep’ KISep’ WI0G}sSeuISepP 
‘powois’ XoIs/a0INos Jaze TawuaLITg 
C&R LA/90/60/¥0/E0/2d’ Ta’ Ta/od‘ ow) 
(ydus3 ’ Yseul/ ua qUTU’ AazTS/ KezTS’/AISep’ KISep 


89TOX0- 
Z9TOXO— 
2S TOX0- 
9STOX0— 
0STOXx0- 
eyTOx0-— 
vy TOX0-— 
3€ TOX0- 


8ETOX0- 
ZETOXO— 
OfTOXO-— 
97TOX0- 
OZTOX0-— 
eTTOx0- 
VI TOXO-— 
20TOX0- 
80TOX0- 
ZOTOXO— 
oF00X0-— 
9300X0- 
0300xX0- 
2300X0- 
v200X0- 
2P00X0-— 
8P00X0-— 
ZP00X0- 
2900xX0- 
9°00xX0- 
0°00*0- 
eq00x0- 
¥q00X0- 
2e00X0- 
8®00xX0- 
72800X0- 
2600X0— 
9600X0- 
0600xX0- 
e800X0- 
v800xX0-— 
3100X0- 
82L00X0- 
7LOOXO— 
2900X0- 
9900X0- 
0900x0-— 
eG00x0- 
¥S00xX0- 
2700X0- 
8¥00x0- 
Z¥00X0- 
S€00X0- 
9£00xX0- 
0£€00X0- 
®7200xX0- 


¥Z00X0- 


86°3xX0 
26°30 
peazxQ 
eRazXO 
Oq9FXO 
9q9FxX0 
OqeFxXO 
CO9FXO 


B00FxX0 
B09T XO 
YPOFXO 
epesx0 
099FxX0 
ge0FXO 
DVOT XO 
CJOFXO 
8FOFXO 
BJ9FXO 
vOFFXO 
e0IFFXO 
OTFFXO 
9TFFXO 
OTFFXO 
t7FFXO 
82FFXO 
3ZFFXO 
vEFFXO 
eEFFxXO 
0vFFxXO 
9VFFXO 
OvFFXO 
7SIFXO 
8SFFXO 
3G5FX0 
v9FFXO 
egF FXO 
0L33*X0 
9LIFxXO 
OLFFXO 
78FFXO 
8833xX0 
3BI FXO 
v6FFxXO 
P6FFxX0 
OPFFXO 
ge F FXO 
oPsIXO 
TAF FXO 
843 FXO 
3qF FXO 
pOFFXO 
POJIFXO 
OPI FXO 
9PIFXO 


OPI FXO 


oOg9Ee 
vSE 
BPE 
CVE 
SEE 
O€e 
vZe 
STE 


ele 
90€ 
00€ 
¥67e 
882 
78? 
9L2 
0L2 
v92 
8S 
ZS? 
992 
Ove 
vE? 
822 
CCS 
9T2 
OT? 
v0? 
86l 
col 
98T 
O8T 
vLT 
89T 
cot 
9ST 
OST 
vor 
SET 
ceT 
921 
02eT 
vIT 
80T 
cot 
96 

06 

v8 

8L 

cL 

99 

09 

vS 

8¥ 

cp 


9€ 


‘dew3taysep ‘401s’ xors‘dewytgois )dewjytaytd STOOXO— ZeFFxXO OE 


Szeszjo-qrT sofyderb 


(0d’ Tw) (uotszen ‘ourenqt{)Areiqrquedo gzz0x0- 


(ow) (qaodewss )azeoRA 

(Tw/OW) (SSNpPTq ‘ 3z0deuses )ammoo01g 

‘ (Tw) (ssarppe )ueyyoodAL 

()993289 

(ew/zw/Tw/ow) ()quuoamey 

(op) (reyo) reyoyngme" 

()zeyo eoAeyMeY 

()3TUIOIMeY 

(od‘ Tw) (uoTszaa ‘aurensar )aomnoseyuedo 
(Tw) (aornosaz)aoIMoOsayweY 

(Tw) (a0mmosez)3s0IMosaYyppw 

(Tw) (asoenboyot ) ology 

(Tw) (Qsenboyot OIFTeM 

(Tw) (gsenbayoT) OL yoeyo 

(Tw) (qsenbeyot )oIpues 

(Tw) (asanbeyot )or1od 

(Tw) (gsenbeyort )aotTaaqesoto 

(1d/ TW/0d’ ow) (sbeTZ’ ysenboyor ‘3 fun ‘/surenaep)sotaequedo 
(Tw) (a0TAep)aoTasquey 

(Tw) (a0Taap)a0TAsappw 

(Tw) (Arerqtt)ArezqtTums 

(od/ ow’ Tw) (Arqugounys/3asyyoouns/ ArezqrT) uotAoUN73aS 
(Tw) (Areaqt{)ArerqrtesotS 

(Tw) (ouwenqtT )Arerqrqyusdopto 

(Tw) (AterqtT{) Areraqt juny 

(Tw) (Arezqr{) Arerqr1ppw 

(Tw) (aureu)3zz0GpuTa 

(ow) (340d )310g9TeM 

(Tw) (ebesseaul) DswATdow 

(ow) (920d) bsw3909 

(Tw/ow) (abessoui’ 310d ) swang 

(Tw) (320d) qa0quey 

(Tw) (310d) 3210appw 

(od) (unndex3)derpecerg 

(od) (umndex3)derLootiTw 

(od) (umnTeubts) TeubTsee1r4 

(od) (umnTeubTs) TeUBTSOOTTW 

(od/ Tw) (estTeubts’ysez) Teubts 

(od) (JeasTeubts)3TeM 

(1d/oa) (JesTeubts’sTeubtsmou)  ydaoxg3es 
(1d/od) (JesTeubts’sTeubtsmoau) Teubtsjes 
(od‘ Tw) (A3TI0F Ad‘ yse}) TrdyseLzes 
(Tw) (oureu) ySeLpUTA 

(Tw) (y¥se2) yseTUEY 
(eu/ZW/TW) (DaTeUTS ‘Da TUT ‘YSe}) YSeLPPW 
(Tw/ow) (aureu’3sTT )ouenpuTa 
(Tw/ow) (apou’ 4st T)anenbug 

(ow) (QSTLT) TT eLUEY 

(ow) (QSTT) peoHumy 

(Tw) (apou)aaousy 

(tw/ow) (apou’3stT) TTeLppw 

(T¥/o0w) (apou’3stT) pesHppw 

(ZW/TW/OW) (pard/apou’3stT)zr1esul 


f7ZOXO— 
OTZOX0— 
9TZOX0- 
OTZOX0- 
20Z70X0- 
v0Z0X0- 
33 T0X0-— 
83 TOX0— 
73 TOX0—- 
9eTOX0- 
92T0X0- 
0°TOX0- 
ePTOX0- 
YPTOX0— 
20TOX0— 
8°TOX0-— 
cOTOXO— 
OqTOx0— 
94T0X0-— 
OaTOxX0- 
eeToxo— 
veTOXO- 
36T0X0- 
86TOX0— 
Z6TOXO— 
°8T0xX0— 
98TOX0— 
08 TOX0-— 
eLTOX0— 
vLTOXO— 
39TOX0- 
89TOXO— 
79TOXO— 
3G TOX0- 
9STOX0— 
OSTOX0— 
eyTOX0-— 
vVTOXO- 
9E TOX0- 
8ETOXO— 
cE TOXO— 
27TOX0— 
9Z7TOX0- 
OZTOX0-— 
eTIOX0-— 
vITOXO- 
30 T0X0- 
80TOX0-— 
ZOTOXO— 
2F00X0- 
9300xX0- 
0300X0- 
e300X0- 


SPPIxX0 
SPPIX0 
vEPFXO 
BopsxXO 
0FPIxX0 
9FPFXO 
OFPIXO 
709FX0 
80°30 
3095X0 
vIEFXO 
BT=FxX0 
0ZFXO 
97EFxXO 
OZOFXO 
CLOFXO 
BESFxX0 
9E9FxX0 
vPOFXO 
epeFxX0 
0S°FxX0 
9S°FX0 
OG2FX0 
79OFXO 
89eFxX0 
399FX0 
VLOFXO 
BL9FxX0 
0893xX0 
989FX0 
0893X0 
769FXO 
8693xX0 
369FX0 
pesjxo 
eesjy xo 
0G9FxX0 
9q23X0 
oqe3xX0 
TOOFXO 
BOO} XO 
DV9OJ XO 
PPOFXO 
epesx0 
0993 X0 
990}X0 
0V2J XO 
7FPFXO 
BJFIXO 
BFEFXO 
vOFFxXO 
203FxX0 
OTIFXO 
9TIIFXO 





(ow) (Moputa) yOeGOLMOpUTM ZETOXO— 809z3x0 


(OW) (AopuTa) SSeIppwITOGMeTA 
()()SserppwMeTa 
(Td/0d’‘ ow) (Ap‘xp‘/moputa) MopaytMezTs 
(od’0w) (3IMoUS /usezOS )eTIT.LMOUS 
(zw/TW/oW) (aT FAUeaIOS ‘ATITIMOPUTA’ MOPUTA ) SETI ELAOpUTM aS 
(€d/zd/Td/0d‘ Tv/0w) 
(3asjJox SSF JOX /UIPTM ‘ QUHTOH ‘ TeqUTOd ‘MOpuTM) TaquTodjes 
(TW/ow) (nuey/sopuTm) dtz3snueyAes 
(Tw/owv) (ber ‘/soputm) ysenboyndaes 
(OW) (aaards ) qUOTZOLUseIOS 
(ow) (aaezds ) yoegOLUBeIOS 
(Tw/ow) (moputo /1azsenbeay) qsoenboy 
(0d/ow) (aeetoog ‘ mopuTm esnopjtoday 
(TW/0W) (3ebpeo’ 13dGueYy) JeHpedeacupy 
(ew/Tw/ow) (beu’134/szebpeo) szebpeoysertjou 
(1d/0d‘ TW/ow) (doz /azeT /3xeRT dz) qxoLI9UTId 
() () youagyzomuedo 
(ow) (shremo) soputmuedo 
(ow) (shreso) user0suedo 
(0a’ ow) (zequnnnuey/ MopuTM) nueHUO 
(zw/TW/0W) (beu’13d4/3abped) yebpeouo 
(oa’ ow) (zaqumnnusy‘ MOpuTM ) NueWZ JO 
(Zw/TW/ow) (beu’ 23d‘ 3ebped) yebpeoso 
(10/0a’ ow) (Ap’xp/ MopuTa) MOpuTMeAOW 
(14/00 0W) (Ap’ xp/ users ) userDSeAoW 
($0/Ed/2a/1d/0d‘ Zv/T¥/0w) 
(Apoga ‘ Apogy ‘soda ‘ SOdH’ S6eT J ‘boy’ 134 /Qebpey) dordAJ TPoW 
(od‘ ow) (sbeTa/Moputm) dWod1 AJ Tpow 
(oa’ ow) (zequnnnusy’ dftzAsnuep) sserppwulezI 
(ow) (bez) reysenboyy Tul 
(0a’0W) (azts’saouarazard) sjard3e9 
(0da‘ ow) (azts/saouerejeid) syardjyeajed 
(Tw/ow) (moputa’ reqsenber )ysenbeypug 
(Ta/od’ Tw/ow) (QeszJOdOL’AesSzJOQJET‘obeul ‘320Gy obeurlmezg 
(1d0/0a’ T¥/ow) (esx JOdOL’ 3955 JO9JOT ‘ Topr0g ‘310d ) Toprogmeszqd 
(€0/2Z0/10/0d) (soto Tun ‘ spucoeso ‘soro Tus ‘spuodess ) YOT TOeTqnogd 
(ow) (ueazos )dsegheTdstq 
(1a’0w/0d) (2UBTeH/ butz3s ‘ zequNNzETW) eT WAeTds Td 
(Tw/ow) (sorotW’ spuocsas )aultLqUuezmMy 
() ()yousqyroMesOoTO 
(ow) (MOpuTM ) MOpUuTMeSOTOD 
(ow) (ueer0s )useTDSEesOoTD 
(ow) (moputmM) reqUTOdIeEeTS 
(ow) (aoputTm) dtz3snuep_ireeTD 
(ow) (moputm) 3sonboyndreeTo 
(0a! THW/oW) (u0t3TS0d/qebpeo’13appw) Iebpeoppw 
(ow) (QueadT ) UOTATINAQUI 
() ()aoTaTnquluedo 


2ZTOXO- 
9Z7TOX0- 
OZTOX0— 
eT TOxX0O- 
vTTOXO- 


20TOX0- 
80TOx0- 
Z0T0X0- 
2300X0- 
9300x0- 
0300x0- 
2300xX0- 
v200xX0- 
2P00x0- 
8P00x0- 
ZPO0X0— 
3900xX0- 
9°00x0- 
0°00X0- 
eq00x0- 
¥q00x0-— 
2eog0x0- 
8200xX0- 
ZeROOX0- 


2600X0- 
9600x0- 
0600xX0- 
2800x0- 
¥800xX0- 
3100xX0- 
8L00X0- 
ZLOOX0-— 
2900X0- 
9900x0- 
0900xX0- 
BG00x0- 
¥S00X0- 
2400xX0- 
8¥00xX0- 
Zv00X0- 
2€00x0- 
9£00xX0-— 
0£€00xX0- 
®700X0- 
¥Z00X0- 
2T00x0- 


yPOFxXO 
eposxo 
Q20FxX0 
geoFX0 
0303 X0 


ZJOFXO 
8JEIXO 
3FEFxX0 
¥OFFXO 
2OFFXO 
OTIFXO 
9TFFXO 
OTFFXO 
T7FFXO 
87IFXO 
O3ZF FXO 
vEFIxXO 
eEesFxXO 
O0FIFXO 
9¥33X0 
OFFFXO 
cSFFXO 
8SIFXO 
3GFIFxX0 


¥9FFXO 
B29FFXO 
0L3F*0 
9LFIFXO 
OLFFXO 
78F FXO 
88330 
383 FXO 
v6FFxXO 
B6FFxXO 
OeFFxXO 
9eF FXO 
oes txXO 
ZqFFXO 
84F FXO 
oqy FXO 
yOFFXO 
BOFIXO 
OPI FXO 
9PFFxXO 
OP FXO 
7OFFXO 


90€ 
oo€e 
¥6Z 
882 
C82 
9l2 


O22 
¥92 
8S2 
cS2 
942 
0v2 
vES 
8272 
tC? 
912 
oT2 
v0? 
86T 
cot 


8¥ 
A 
9€ 
Of 


SOSJJO'QTT “UOT NUT 


(Tw/ow) (aureupTo’ sureumau ) uoTs Faoudumg 
(Tw/ow) (antea ‘butz3SedhQ )anTeATOOLYo en 
(Tw/ow) (aurenedé3 ‘ Aer1yedAL [003 )adALTOOLpUTa 
(ow) (fqoystp) qoalqoystqeerg 

(Tw’ow) (fqoystp/ oureu ) qoefqoystaqnd 


2900x0- 
9900x0- 
0900x0- 
®G00x0- 
¥S00X0- 


¥6F FXO 
263FxX0 
OeFFXO 
9eFFxX0 
OeFFXO 


80T 
cot 
96 
06 
v8 


(ow) (aurea) 3oefqoyxsTta3e9 

(ZW/TW/oW) (azts ‘wou’ 4ST [earj )ASTISeTAPPW 
() ()3090fqQOaMOCT TY 

(ow) (300£qogm) 200 fqogmMeera 

(ow) (QSTTeerj ) 4ASPIser{901 4 

(Tw/ow) (oot ‘oureu)uCOT3Nd 

(ZW/TW/0W) (AST Taerzj ‘uooT ‘oureu )U0dT 3389 
(Tw/0w) (q0efqo’ oureu) Joe LqogMjNd 

(ow) (aureu) 309efqogM32e9 


(90/G0/#0/€d/2d‘ TW‘ Ta/0d’ ow) 
(uajzUTu’ XeZzTsS‘KXezTts 

‘Xysep’ x ysep/drz3sep/ A018 / xo1s ‘uqois )TogAseudeywyAtay [a 
(od’ Tu/ow) (reJZJNGeTQnop’ z10g3sSeI’/ [qouoyZewTUe ) Siraj JngHee1I 
(op’oe) (umu’ 4st Treddoo) ytulyastitzeddoon 
(oe) (da) QzOdgATTOIOS 
(op’oe) (Arquea/ deulroT0o ) yd9u7eD 
(oe) (deuroToo ) depzo[opjee14 
(op) (setzque)deyro[oa399 
(oe) (st T1do)4stTTidjeer 
(Te/pe) (oer ‘ubz1) UOTHeYy_OeYyIOX 

(90/G0/t0/ed/zd’ Tw’ Ta/0d’ Ow) 

(uitaqU TW’ AeZTS’ XezTS’7ASep/XzsSep’dzysep 
‘Zo0a1s /yors /dxzo01s )3AtTadt to 
(92) (ast Tdoo) ystidojeez4 
(oe) (qaodmata )sqst1dop710dAee7d 
(ow) (ubr) uoTbeyssods tq 
(ow) (abr) uoTbeyzeeTO 
auxyy OSN DINQNJ AJOJ PSOATOSOY xyux 
()( )WoTbeyMoNn 
(Tw/oOW) (qoez ‘ ub1) UOT bayzOeUTO 
(Tw/ow) (qoez ‘ub2) uoTbeyzooupuy 
(1a/0d‘ ow) (qubtey’ yapta/azydeueTd) reyseyoerg 
(1d/0d) (3ybTey’ YyApTM) TeyseYooT IV 
(Tw) (qU033xe3 )qUO,TWSE 
(Tw) (3Uu033x93 ) JaOAPPW 
Cow’ Tw) (139W3x03 ‘ qI0d3Se7 ) JUOTISY 
(Op/Te/oe) (azzs’zynq’serduy )seyduztur 
() ()2099T TauMos td 
()()29833TTaUMO 
(Te/oe) (ZT TT denatasédoo 
(oe) (T dena tasouds 
(Ge) (zaXeT woyradeTYOOTUN 
(ce) (zaXeT )woyrekeTYOOT 
(TP/op’ Te/oe) (A/x/aqtadsetdurts / 7zz0dmata )a3Tidseaow 
(ze/Te/oe) (ezep’aqtadsatduts da )eqytadsebueyo 
(op) (umu)aqtadseer 
(op’oe) (umu’aqTadseTduts )e34T1dS3729 
(oe) (220dmaTta ) dAOdITeM 

(Sd/#0/EG/2d/Ta/0d’ Tw) 

(Axeur’xxew/’ Autu’ xuqul’ Xp’ Xp/37Odyser)T9ASeUTTOIOS 
(2d/Td/0d’ ow) (qubtey’yapTa‘ uadap ‘dena tq) dew3 tay tur 
( )soquieogda 
(10/0d‘ Tw) (A’x/astizeddoo )4TeMD 
(1d/od‘ Tw) (eqep’ uoTAeUTASep’ AST ITEeddoo )SAOWD 
(Tw) (ast 11eddoo )dumgo 


2700X0- 
8¥00xX0- 
7¥00X0- 
2€00X0- 
9£00X0- 
0£€00X0- 
2Z00xX0- 
yZ00X0- 
2T00X0- 


SOSJJO"QTT“UooT 


3GZ0X0- 
8SZ0X0- 
ZSZOXO0- 
2FZ0X0- 
9¥Z0X0- 
0¥Z0X0- 
PEZOX0- 
vEZOXO- 
2Z20X0- 


87Z0X0- 
ZZZOXO— 
OTZOX0- 
9TZOX0- 
OTZOX0- 
2070xX0- 
vOZOX0O— 
35 TOX0- 
83 TOX0- 
ZF TOX0- 
S28TOX0- 
9°TOX0- 
0>TOx0- 
ePTOx0- 
VPTOXO- 
S0TOX0— 
8°TOX0— 
TOTOXO— 
OqTOXO— 
94TOX0- 
0aTOxX0- 
BeTOXO— 
veTOXO- 
26T0X0- 
86TOX0- 
Z6TOXO-— 


O8TOX0- 
98TOX0- 
08TOX0- 
BZTOX0O- 
¥LTOX0- 
39TOX0-— 


LAF FXO 
8433X0 
2qFI3X0 
yO FXO 
POF FXO 
OP33x0 
9PFIX0 
OPFFX0 
ZOFIXO 





(oda) (QeOTJ)XTaAdS STOOXO— ZEFIXO O€ 
SJesjjo'qtTT dyyyqeu 


(tTe/oe) 
(Jo quozjuy eq 07 rokeT ‘aaoul 0F ToALT) JoJUOTAUTAeAeTOAOW BeOOXO— 8SIFxX0 


(Ta‘/od) (yseu’ pr0M)06320de3TIM ZIOOX0— 20FFxXO ST 
(oe) (tT )oyulzoeAeTaTyYL ZeQOXO-— BGFFxXO 


(0d) (S3Tq)Ss3aTaqOdeeTI O000X0- #FFFXO ZT 


(0d) (S37q)s3Ta{OdS0CTTW 


(oa) (3e0TJ)oTH01ds 

(0d) (2eOTJZ) Ssoovds 

(od) (QeoTys )utswds 

(0d) (zebe UT )osetads 

(0d) (QeOTJ )200TLdS 

(od) (3eoTZ)32bsds 

(0d/ Ta) (qeoTaqubTt /3eOTAAJOT )MOddS 
(od) (QeoTJ )botds 

(od) (QeoTZ )dxads 

(od) (3eoTZ) yueLds 

(0d) (3eOoTF) YsoodS 

(od) (3eoTJ) YyUTSdS 

(0d/ Ta) (QeoTaqUHT I /JeOTAPJET ) SoouTSds 
(od) (QeoTZ) ueLds 

(od) (3eOTZ)SODdS 

(0a) (3eOTJ)UTSds 

(oa) (3eOTZ) ueqvds 


SOSJ JO TT suerzyzeU 


(¢a’ 2d’ Ta’ 0d) (rebe3uT / tebe3uz / rebejuT / rebs3ut )ATaqdadagal 
(¢a’ zd’ Td‘ 0d) (rebe jut /‘ rebezuT ‘ tebejut ‘ rebS {uz ) TnNaaaagI 
(€d’ 2d‘ Td’ 0d) (rebequzt /rebs3uF / tebe UT ‘ Tabs UT )qnsadagal 
(¢d/ ed‘ Td’ 0d) (tebe uTt / rabequt ’ tebe3zuy ‘ rehse7UT ) ppwadagal 
(1d’ 0d) (rebequt ‘tebe UF ) boNadaggI 

(1d’ 0d) (tebequt /rebe7utzT ) squddagal 

(1d’ 0d) (rebequz ’19b983UF ) 3S Laaqagal 

(€d’ 2d’ Ta’ 0d) (rebequT ‘ rebe3zuF ‘zabe uz /tebszuT ) dupaqagal 
(0d) (xebe3zuT )3TAdaaagaI 

(1d‘0d) (tebe juz ’ TebozuT )xTaAddaagaI 


$32SJ JO qTT“seqqnopsssTyzeul 


9000X0— eJFFXO 9 
SJBSJJO°qtTT*objod 


2100X0- 
8L00X0- 
ZLO0X0- 
2900X0- 
9900x0- 
0900x0- 
eG00x0- 
¥S00X0- 
2400X0- 
8¥00X0- 
Z500X0— 
2£00X0- 
9£00X0- 
0£00x0- 
®Z00xX0— 
¥Z00X0- 
®T00X0- 


¥SO0xX0— 
2700X0-— 
8400X0- 
2v00X0— 
2€00X0- 
9£00x0- 
0£00xX0-— 
®200xX0- 
¥Z00X0-— 
2T00X0— 


C8FFXO 
883FxX0 
O38 IFXO 
v6FFxX0 
b6FFXO 
OPFFXO 
ge F FXO 
Ob FFXO 
TAF FXO 
8qdF FXO 
OqFFXO 
vOFFXO 
POFFXO 
OPFFxXO 
SPF FXO 
OPF FXO 
TOF FXO 


oes FXO 
TAF FXO 
845 FXO 
OqF FXO 
yOFFXO 
POF FXO 
OPI FXO 
9PFFxXO 
OPF FXO 
CPF FXO 


(0d‘ Ta) (JeOTAQUOTI/ZEOTAVJOT)ATAdS HSOOXO— OeFFXO 
(0d/ Td) (JeOTAVUHT1I/QeOTAVJOT) INWdS BFO0XO-— ZAFIXO 
(0d/ Ta) (JeOTAQUDTI/QeOTAVIET)GNSdS 8%00X0-— 8qIIxXO 
(0d/ Td) (QeoTaqUHTI/AeOTAVJOT) PPwdS ZFOOXO— SqzyFxO 
(0d) (3e0TF)BONdS SE00X0- POTFXO 

(oda) (FeOTJ)SqudS 9E00XO— POFFXO 

(1a) (QeOTJ)IASLdS OL00X0— OPIFXO 

(Od/ Ta) (QeOTAQUHTI/ALOTAQJOT)GuHdS eZ00X0- 9PIFXO 
(od) (x9b0 {UT )3TadS ¥ZOOXO— OPIFXO 


(oe) (TT ozurrekeqTue73e4 
(oe) (tT oyulraketasodstq 
() ()oyurzeAe' Mon 
(ow) (TT) oyurzaekeTyooTuN 
(Tp/op’0e) (A’x’ FT) TeAeTYOTUM 
(Tw/0W) (10/dz)qoeudTTOqIOdASeUSITadems 
(ow) (tT oyurszahkeTYyooT 
(ow) (TT) szeAeTYoOoTUN 
(ow) (TT) srekeTyooT 
(ow) (xaAeT) rakeTYSOTUN 
(tTw/ow) (zeker / tT) reke1lyoot 
(tw/ow) (zakeqT/ FT) TeARTOEATEA 
(op’ow) (bets /‘ teAeT )2a7epdnpug 
(ow) (xeXeT aqepdnutbeg 
(1a/0d/ Tw/ow) (Ap’xp/ taAeT / TT) TaAeTT [LOIS 
(10/0d‘ Tw/0w) (Ap/xp/ reAeT’ TT) rekeTazTts 
(1G/0d’ Tw/0w) (Ap’xp/ rake / TT) rake TaAop 
(Tw/ow) (zaheT ‘ TT) rzeXeTpuTYyoR 
(Tw/ow) (xaket/ tT) rzekeTQuorzdn 
(ew! §0/€0/2d/Ta/0a’ Tw/ow) 
(zuq’/sbetz’ TA! Tx’ 0X! 0x’uq’ TT )reAeTpuTyosezearD 
(tw! $0/€d/2d/Td/0d’ Tw/ow) 
(zuq/s6eTs/ TA’ Tx’ 0A’ 0x’ un’ FT )zekeTQuorZdnozeEID 
(ow) (41) stakeT3 JULI 


(ow) (Yoo TdI JoseqI yooTun 

(0d) (mouyjuOp )esegI yoo! 

(od/0W) (3abrz0gAT [eoy ’ Ady requeusy ) Tequousyoo1 

(ow) (920dqa ) yousqyzomeyoTy 

(1a’0d‘0W) (sbeTa/azts ’ Aoyrzoquouly ) TequeusyooT Tw 

()()AeTdstaqyutyjey 

() ()AeTdstqeyeusy 

(QW) (uaer0s ) UseTDSeyxeN 

(ow) (Moputm) ysonboyusdseerz 

(9d OW) (a3@TdwoD‘ MopuTm) yserjoupu” 
(za‘ Ta‘od‘ ew’ cw‘ Tw’ Ow) 

(H/M/SBeT a’ 3XaL60n /9xeLS0d/ Apog/moputm) ysenboysAspt tng 

(OW) (moputTm) yserjoyuTbog 

(eq’ed’ Td’ 0d’ ew’ e7w’ Tw’ Ow) | 

(H/M/6e TAN‘ Be Tad /3X8IN /3X@Ld ‘ Apog ‘ moputm) senboyoyny 

()()quo0zJOLYyous™M 

() () yoegoLYyousgmM 

(ow) (9x09T ) YqbueTAxXeL INV] 

(1d/0d‘ ow) (beTz ‘azts / ssouarayaid)syargzes 
(€d/zd/Td/0d’ ow) 


(3U6 Pouxeur’ yy p raxeul’ 3Yy6 PoyU TON’ YAP TAO TW’ MOpUTA) S32 TUT TMOPUTM 


(OW) (aoputa) qUuOTAOLAOpUTM 


2600X0- 
9600x0-— 
0600X0—- 
2800X0-— 
¥800x0-— 
9400X0- 
8L00xX0— 
7L00X0— 
©900xX0- 
9900xX0-— 
0900X0- 
2G00xX0— 
yS00xX0- 
3700X0- 
8%00X0- 
Zv00X0- 
3€00X0- 
9£00xX0- 
0£€00X0-— 


2Z200xX0- 


¥Z00X0- 
ST00X0— 


SJESJJO" 


veTOX0— 
26TO0X0-— 
86TOX0— 
Z6TOX0— 
O8TOxX0-— 
98T0X0- 
08 TOX0— 
eZTOX0- 
vLTOX0— 
39TOX0— 


89TOX0-— 
Z9TOX0— 


2G TOX0— 
9STOX0- 
OS TOX0— 
eyTOx0- 
vPTOXO— 


SETOXO— 
8E TOX0- 


V9OFFXO 
e9gF FXO 
OLFFX0 
9LF FXO 
OLIFXO 
7BFFXO 
88F3xX0 
38F FXO 
v6FFXO 
26FFX0 
oeFFxXO 
get FXO 
oeF FXO 
TAF FXO 
845 FxX0 
OqFFXO 
vOF FXO 
POF FXO 
OPFFxX0 


9PFFXO 


OPFIXO 
COFIXO 


ATT‘ sraketT 


0G9FxX0 
79OFXO 
899FX0 
B99FX0 
PLOFXO 
eLEFx0 
089FxX0 
989FX0 
089FX0 
76PFXO 


8623X0 
2623X0 


peayxo 
eRaTXO 
0qeTx0 
9qe}xX0 
oqeyXO 


ZooTXO 
GoDZXO 





(Ta‘ Tw/0d’ ow) 
(azTsrejjnq/ rej Jngqgnd{no/ yzbueTAndurT ‘ Hutz34SAnduT)aze[suerL STOOXO- 


S3OSFJO°OTT 


(Tw/oW) (01S‘3Saep)auTLdup 9£00x0- 
(Iv/ow) (o1S/Asep)sauT.Lqns of£00x0- 
(TW/0W) (o1S/ASaep)oUTLppw eZ00x0-— 


TOF FXO OC 


*z07eTSUeI3 


BOFFXO FS 
OPIFXO BF 
9PIFXO ZY 





4703 custom chip, 52 
AbortIO(), 43, 47 
ABORTIO macro, 43 
AddHead(), 7 
AddIntServer(), 60 
AddLibrary(), 79 
AddPort(), 32-33 

address error, 26 

AddTail(), 7 

AddTask(), 15-16 
Allocate(), 72 

allocating memory, 65-72 
AllocEntry(), 67, 69-72 
AllocMem(), 15, 67-68, 72 
AllocSignal(), 20, 27 
AllocTrap(), 27 

AUDO-AUD3 interrupts, 54 
autovector address, 52 
BeginIO(), 43, 47 

BLIT interrupts, 54, 60 

bus error, 26 

busy wait, 12 

Cause(), 62 

ChangePri(), 14 

CheckIO(), 43, 47 

chip memory, 67 

CHK instruction, 26 
CloseDevice(), 48 
CloseLibrary(), 79 
CMD_CLEAR commands, 44 
CMD_FLUSH commands, 45 
CMD_READ commands, 44 
CMD_RESET commands, 44 
CMD_START commands, 45 
CMD_STOP commands, 44 
CMD_UPDATE commands, 44 
CMD_WRITE commands, 44 
concurrent programs, 12 
COPER interrupts, 54, 60 


Index 


CPU priority level, 54 
CreatePort(), 32 
critical section, 22 
Deallocate(), 67, 72 
deallocation 
memory, 65 
Debug(), 84 
debugger, 83 
devices 
definition, 40 
driver, 40 
input/output, 39 
standard, 49 
Task structure fields for, 15 
unit, 40 
Disable(), 23, 63 
DISABLE macro, 23, 63 
DISABLE mutual-exclusion mechanism, 
55 
disabling 
interrupts, 23-24, 56, 63 
maximum disable period, 23 
DoIO(), 43, 46 
DSKBLK interrupts, 54 
DSKSYNC interrupts, 54 
Enable(), 23, 63 
ENABLE macro, 23, 63 
Enqueue(), 7 
events, 19 
exception handlers, 25 
exception signal, 25 
exceptions 
synchronous, 26 
exclusion, 22 
ezec/libraries.h, 81 
EXTER interrupts, 54, 60 
fast memory, 67 
fatal system error, 84 
finalPC, 16, 18, 74 


Index - 1 


FindName(), 8 
FindPort(), 33 
first-in-first-out (FIFO), 7, 30 
forbidding, 22 
Forbid(), 22 
free memory, 74 
FreeEntry(), 67, 69 
FreeMem(), 68, 72 
FreeSignal(), 20, 27 
FreeTrap(), 27 
GetMsg(), 36, 47 
Grand-Wack, 84 
hardware interrupts, 51 
hardware/intbits.h., 57 
IDNestCnt counter, 63 
illegal instruction, 26 
initialPC, 16, 18 
Insert(), 6 
INTEN interrupts, 54 
INTENA register, 52 
Interrupt structure, 3, 55 
interrupts 
68000 interrupt request signals, 52 
68000 priority levels, 52 
autovectors, 53 
deferred, 54 
disable, 56 
disabling, 63 
handlers, 55-56 
hardware registers, 52 
non-maskable (NMI), 54 
priorities, 53 
server return value, 60 
servers, 55, 60 
software, 62 
inter-system communication, 29 
INTREQ register, 52 
1/O 
asynchronous, 43, 47 
performing, 45 
quick I/O, 48 
synchronous, 43, 46 
I/O commands 
abort all 1/O requests, 45 
clear internal buffers, 44 
continue after a stop, 45 
definition of, 40 


Index - 2 


force out internal buffers, 44 
non-standard, 40, 42 
read from a device unit, 44 
reset the device unit, 44 
standard, 40, 44 
stop device unit, 44 
when errors occur, 46 
write to a device unit, 44 
I/O functions, 43 
I/O requests 
completion, 47 
definition of, 40 
multiple, 47 
standard, 42 
10.h, 44 
10.8, 44 
IORequest structure, 40-41 
IOStdReq structure, 42 
last-in-first-out (LIFO), 7 
libraries 
adding, 79 
caching a pointer, 78 
calling a library routine, 77 
CLOSE vector, 80 
definition of, 76 
EXPUNGE vector, 80 
OPEN vector, 80 
relation to devices, 82 
Library structure, 81 
line 1010 emulator, 26 
line 1111 emulator, 26 
List structure, 2, 4 
lists 
empty lists, 9 
linkage, 2 
prioritized insertion, 7 
scanning a list, 10 
searching by name, 8 
shared system lists, 10 
sorted, 4 
lists.z, 8 
locking, 25 
MakeLibrary(), 79 
masking interrupts, 23 
MemChunk structure, 74 
MemEntry structure, 69, 71 
MEMF_CHIP, 67 


MEMF_CLEAR, 67 
MEMF_FAST, 67 
MEMF_PUBLIC, 67 
MemHeader structure, 73 
MemList structure, 69, 71 
memory 

allocation within interrupt code, 66 

clearing, 67 

deallocation within interrupt code, 66 

fast, 67 

free, 65, 74 

location of, 67 

public, 67 

size 

allocation, 66 
deallocation, 66 

special-purpose chip, 67 
memory.h, 69, 73 
memory.t, 73 
message, 30 
message arrival action, 31-32 
message ports 

creation, 32 

deletion, 33 

public, 32 
Message structure, 34 
messages 

getting, 36 

putting, 34 

replying, 37 

waiting for, 35 
MsgPort structure, 30 
multitasking, 12 
mutual exclusion, 25, 56 
nested disabled sections, 63 
NEWLIST macro, 6 
NMI interrupts, 54, 60 
Node structure, 2 
nodes 

adding, 6 

data type, 3 

initialization, 3 

inserting, 6 

names, 4 

priority, 4 

removing, 7 

successor and predecessor, 3, 5 


content, 2 
nodes.h, 3 
nodes.3, 3 
OpenDevice(), 45, 48 
OpenLibrary/(), 76, 79 
Permit(), 22 
polling, 12 
port, 30 
PORTS interrupts, 54, 60 
ports.h, 30, 33 
ports.2, 30, 33 
predecessor, 3, 5 
preemptive task scheduling, 53 
privilege violation, 26 
processes, 15 
processor 

halting, 13 

interrupt priority levels, 23 
public memory, 67 
PutMsg(), 34 
quantum, 12 
RBF interrupts, 54 
register parameters, 56 
RemHead(), 7 
RemIntServer(), 60 
REMOVE macro, 8 
Remove(), 7 
RemPort(), 33 
RemTail(), 7 
RemTask(), 18 
rendezvous, 33 
replying, 30, 37 
ReplyMsg(), 30, 37 
ROM-Wack, 83 
RTE instruction, 56 
RTS instruction, 16, 25, 56 
scheduling, 12 
semaphores, 25 
SendIO(), 43, 47 
SetFunction(), 82 
SetIntVector(), 53, 57 
SetSignal(), 21 
SigExcept(), 25 
signal bit number, 31 
Signal(), 22 
signals 

allocation, 20 


Index - 3 


coordination, 19 
exception, 25 
on arrival of messages, 31 
waiting for, 21 
SOFTINT interrupts, 54 
software interrupts, 30-31, 51, 54, 62 
stack overflows, 18 
structures 
access to global system structures, 22 
shared, 22 
successor, 3, 9 
supervisor mode, 27 
supervisor modes, 52, 56 
system stack, 27, 56 
task signal, 30 
Task structure, 14-15 
task.h, 14 
task-private interrupts, 25 
task-relative interrupts, 51 
tasks 
cleanup, 19 
communication, 19 
coordination, 19 
creation 
initialPC, 16 
stack, 16 
deallocation of system resources, 19 
finalPC, 18 
forbidding, 22 
initialPC, 18 
non-preemptive, 22 
priority, 14 
queues 
ready queue, 14 
waiting queue, 14 
seheduling 
non-preemptive, 12 
preemptive, 12 
stack 
minimum size, 18 
overflows, 18 
supervisor mode, 18 
user mode, 18 
states 
added, 13 
exception, 13 
removed, 13 


Index - 4 


running, 13 
waiting, 13 
termination, 18 
tasks.t, 15 
TBE interrupts, 54 
time-slicing, 12 
trace, 26 
trap instructions, 26-27 
TRAP instructions, 18, 27 
traps 
address error, 26, 86 
bus error, 26, 86 
CHK instruction, 26, 86 
illegal instruction, 26, 86 
in supervisor mode, 27 
line 1010 emulator, 26, 86 
line 1111 emulator, 26, 86 
normal entry, 86 
privilege violation, 26, 86 
trace, 26 
trace (single step), 86 
trap handlers, 27 
trap instruction N, 86 
TRAPV instruction, 26, 86 
zero divide, 26, 86 , 26 
TRAPYV instruction, 26 
VERTB interrupts, 54, 60 
Wack, 83 
Wait(), 21-23, 36, 47 
WaitIO(), 43, 47 
WaitPort(), 35-36 
zero divide, 26 


> 24895 FPT USA 


Amiga” Technical Reference Series 


Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: 


Exec 





The Amiga Computer is an exciting new high-performance microcomputer with 
superb graphics, sound, and multitasking capabilities. Its technologically advanced 
hardware, designed around the Motorola 68000 microprocessor, includes three 
sophisticated custom chips that control graphics, audio, and peripherals. The 
Amiga’s unique system software is contained in 192K of read-only memory (ROM), 
providing programmers with unparalleled power, flexibility, and convenience in 
designing and creating programs. 


The AMIGA ROM KERNEL REFERENCE MANUAL: Exec, written by the technical 
staff at Commodore-Amiga, Inc., is a detailed description of Exec, the ROM-based 
multitasking system executive that controls the Amiga’s underlying system execution 
environment. It includes: 

e an overview of the capabilities of Exec 

e key descriptions of how Exec handles multitasking and inter-task communication 

e explanations of Exec’s exception handling and memory allocation 

e acomplete listing of the ROM routines that make up Exec 


For the serious programmer working in assembly language, C, or Pascal who wants 
to take full advantage of the Amiga’s impressive capabilities, the AMIGA ROM 
KERNEL REFERENCE MANUAL: Exec is an essential reference. 


Written by the technical staff at Commodore-Amiga, Inc., who designed the Amiga’s 
hardware and system software, the AMIGA ROM KERNEL REFERENCE MANUAL: 
Exec is the definitive source of information on the system execution environment of 
this revolutionary microcomputer. 


The other books in the Amiga Technical Reference Series are: 


Amiga Intuition Reference Manual 
Amiga Hardware Reference Manual 
Amiga ROM Kernel Reference Manual: Libraries and Devices 


Cover design by Marshall Henrichs 
Cover photograph by Jack Haeger 


Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, Inc. ISBN O-201-11095-? 





This was brought to you 
from the archives of 


nhttp://retro-commodore.eu 


